{{It was late in December, the last busy days of the year. But the seven or eight boys
on the windy beach were as lighthearted and free as ever. The eldest was twelve, the
youngest nine. They were gathered beneath a dune in lively discussion. Some were
standing. Others sat. One rested his chin in his hands, elbows dug deep in the sand. As they
talked, the sun went down in the west.
Their talking now over, the boys galloped off along the water’s edge. From inlet to inlet
each ran as he pleased. The group was quickly dispersed. One by one they retrieved what
the storm had brought two nights before and the ebb tide had left behind: rotted boards, a
chipped bowl, bamboo slivers, chunks of wood, an old ladle with the handle torn off. The
boys heaped them up on a dry patch of sand away from the lapping waves. All that they
gathered was soaking wet. …
The spoils of their hunt they had gathered for burning. With the red flames, wild joy
would be theirs. Running and leaping across, they would prove their courage. And now
from the dunes they gathered dry grass. The eldest stepped forward and touched it with
fire. They stood in a circle and waited to hear the crack of bamboo split by the flames. But
only the grass burned. It caught and died, caught and died. A few puffs of smoke floated
up, nothing more. The wood, the bamboo were untouched. The mirror frame only was
charred here and there. With a weird hiss, steam shot out from the end of the pole. One
after another the boys dropped to the sand and blew at the pile as hard as they could. But
instead of flames, smoke arose, stinging their eyes. Their cheeks were stained with tears. …
Look, look, one boy shouted, the Izu hill fires! If their fires burn, then why shouldn’t
ours? All leaped to their feet, looking out towards the water. Far across the great Bay of
Sagami two fires flickered and trembled, so feeble they might be just will-o’-the-wisps. Now
that harvest is over, the farmers of Izu must be burning the chaff of their fields in the hills.
Surely these are the fires that bring tears to the eyes of winter travellers. Their distant
beams tell only of the long, dark road ahead.
The boys danced wildly and clapped and sang, The hills are burning, the hills are
burning. Their innocent voices rang through the dusk, down the long, lonely beach. The
whispering of the waves blended with their voices. The waves rushed in from the southern
tip of the inlet in foaming white lines. The tide was beginning to rise. …
Still vexed by their failure, the eldest boy looked back at the pile as he ran. One more
time he looked back from the top of the dune before running down the far side. It has
caught, he shouted, Our fire has caught, when he saw the flames on the beach. The others,
amazed, climbed back to the top. They stood in a row and looked down.
It was true. The stubborn bits of wood, fanned by the wind, had caught fire. Smoke
billowed up and red tongues of flame shot out, disappeared and shot out again. The sharp
crack of bamboo joints splitting in the fire, the shower of sparks with each report.1 Indeed,
the fire had caught. But the boys stood their ground, clapped and shouted with joy, then
turned and raced down the hill for home.
Now the ocean was dark and from the beach, too, the sun was gone. All that was left
was the winter night’s loneliness. And on the desolate beach the fire burned, alone,
untended. …
}}
[[
9 The word “But” (line 1) emphasizes the contrast
between
(1) season and activity (3) calmness and anger
(2) age and experience (4) bravery and fear
10 The actions of the boys in lines 6 and 7 suggest a
mood of
(1) fear (3) sadness
(2) excitement (4) peacefulness
11 In line 12, “The spoils of their hunt” refers to
(1) large clams (3) horseshoe crabs
(2) colorful rocks (4) beach debris
12 The repetition used in line 16 emphasizes the
(1) sand’s power (3) boys’ hopes
(2) wind’s speed (4) ocean’s beauty
13 In line 31, “vexed” most nearly means
(1) scared (3) embarrassed
(2) threatened (4) frustrated
14 The purpose of lines 40 through 42 is to
(1) personify the Sun
(2) describe the setting
(3) characterize the narrator
(4) demonstrate the action
]]
&&— Kunikida Doppo
excerpted from “The Bonfire”
Monumenta Nipponica: Studies in Japanese Culture, 1970
The Voyagers’ Press&&
##January 2011##
{{
Handcycling was developed in the 1980s by people working to create alternate types of
human-powered vehicles. So it was almost by accident that a new world of cycling was
opened to people with disabilities. …
“The disabled community picked up on it right away,” said Ian Lawless, Colorado
regional director and cycling director for Adaptive Adventures. Even people with one
working arm can handcycle with some modifications made to the equipment, said Lawless.
“Just about anyone can do it. It’s an accessible sport. It’s not just for racing; it’s also for
recreational riding. It’s a barrier breaker that allows a disabled rider to participate in cycling
with friends and families who may be riding conventional bicycles.”
In the 25 years since its development, handcycling has continued to grow in popularity.
It’s been part of the IPC [International Paralympic Committee] cycling program since 1998,
and the 2004 Paralympics included handcycling racing for the first time. Today, thousands
of people, able-bodied and those with disabilities, have turned to handcycling as a means to
improve their cardiovascular health, increase upper-body strength, compete, and ride with
friends and family. …
An upright handcycle is an entry-level bike for those who are new to the sport, who just
want exercise or recreation, or who don’t want to ride very long distances or go very fast.
Because of their higher center of gravity, upright handcycles aren’t suitable for speeds
higher than 15 mph. The internal gear systems, borrowed from the cycling industry,
usually come in a choice of three or seven speeds, which naturally limits the speed to less
than 15 mph. They are easy to transfer in and out of from a wheelchair, and have a natural,
fork-type steering system.
Recumbent1 handcycles come in a few different variations. There are two steering
options: fork-steer and lean-to-steer, and two seating options: one where the rider reclines
and the other, a “trunk-power” version, where the rider leans forward. They usually come
with 27-gear drivetrains,2 although they can be purchased with three- or seven-gear
drivetrains.
The trunk-power handcycle doesn’t have much of a seatback. The cranks are low to the
ground and far away from the rider. With this arrangement, riders are able to put the weight
of their trunks behind each stroke, allowing them to go faster for longer. The limitation to
this type of handcycle, Lawless said, is that the athlete must have control of most or all of
his abdominal muscles, so it may not be suitable for all athletes.
With the other seating option, the rider sits in a seat with a reclined back. The cranks
are higher and closer, allowing the rider to use the seatback for leverage to rotate the
cranks. …
The lean-to-steer version has a two-piece frame where the top frame swivels over the
bottom frame. The front wheel turns along with the seat. The rider initiates the turn by
leaning his whole body. There is a bit of a learning curve with this type, but many riders
prefer this type because they have a feel similar to monoskiing.3 They’re used primarily, but
not exclusively, by people with lower-level disabilities. Lawless said there’s no advantage of
one type of steering over the other. It’s primarily a matter of the athlete’s preference. …
}}
[[
15 The passage includes the quotation about the
handcycle being a “barrier breaker” (line 8) in
order to stress its
(1) durability (3) portability
(2) affordability (4) accessibility
16 The inclusion of handcycling in the 2004
Paralympics demonstrates its
(1) profitability
(2) popularity
(3) dependability
(4) intensity
17 According to the passage, many people have
turned to handcycling in order to
(1) improve their health
(2) lower transportation costs
(3) reduce stress
(4) minimize pollution
18 As used in the passage, the phrase “learning
curve” (line 38) refers to the
(1) difficulty of learning a skill
(2) responsibility of individual riders
(3) braking mechanism
(4) safety features
19 According to the passage, the type of handcycle
one should purchase might depend upon
(1) unit cost (3) individual weight
(2) structural defects (4) physical needs
20 In discussing the advantages and disadvantages of
various handcycle designs, the author uses which
strategy?
(1) personal anecdote
(2) cause and effect
(3) comparison and contrast
(4) chronological order
]]
&&— Disabled Sports USA
excerpted from “Handcycling 101”
Challenge Magazine, Spring 2005
http://www.dsusa.org&&
##January 2011##
{{
We are packing up the house. The air is pulpy with the smells of cardboard and
newsprint, and every room is lined with boxes, flaps fanned open at the top. We pack and
pack—eighty boxes already, and so far, with two weeks still to go, we haven’t missed a thing.
What do we keep it all for? Books and more books; unused wedding presents and
mismatched wine glasses; worn-out stuffed animals and outgrown toys; sheaves of letters;
boxes of loose photographs; a landfill of sweaters, shoes, and clothes: the weighty
apparatus of four lives. It will take more than two hundred book boxes, dish barrels, mirror
boxes, mattress crates, a football field of paper, bubble wrap, and tape to contain it all. We
want to contain it. We want to hold it tight. …
There’s no place like home, Dorothy chants, clicking her ruby heels as she recites her
dream-dissolving spell. I’ve moved half a dozen times since I first left my parents’ house for
college, twenty-five years ago this fall, and sometimes I wonder if there is any place I’ll ever
really feel at home. I feel loose-footed on this spinning planet, as displaced as those
mountains vanished in the fog. Of course, you don’t have to move physically to leave
yourself behind. Something is lost with every tick of the second hand on the clock. …
My parents still live in the house in which I grew up, and my childhood room remains
almost exactly the way I left it when I last lived there at eighteen. It’s a shrine to my
long-vanished child-self, a garden gone to seed, a tangle of dusty paperbacks, knickknacks,
and disheveled dolls. My mother refuses to throw anything away, although lately she’s been
urging me to come and weed things out myself.
“I don’t want to leave you with a mess to clean up when I die,” she says. Now that we’re
moving, she says, it’s time.
Back in Boston for a visit, I shake open a large black trash bag and sit down on the floor
of my old room. From a built-in cabinet, I exhume a postcard of Baryshnikov in midleap, a
silver-plated pendant in the shape of a Hershey’s Kiss, faded mimeographs of high school
class songs and summer reading lists, stacks of letters, a flowered fabric-covered scrapbook
(blank). I remember each of these objects perfectly, though I haven’t thought of them in
years. I take a breath, open the trash bag, and stuff them in.
My mother comes in and perches on the edge of the bed. “You don’t need to throw
everything away, you know,” she says, reaching for a postcard with a cartoon of a girl with
googly eyes on the front and my long-dead paternal grandmother’s spidery handwriting on
the back. My most beloved darling. It’s dated August 1970. I would have been seven then,
the same age as my daughter now. Will we be sitting together like this, looking at postcards
from my own mother, when my daughter is forty-three?
My mother says, “You know, you only need to get rid of those things you don’t want to
keep.”
What don’t I want? I fish the pendant out of the trash bag, fingering the Kiss’s paper
pull-tab, which reads “I Love You,” and which, amazingly, is still in tact. I give it to my
daughter, along with the scrapbook and a doll with floozy blond hair and tattered clothes, 
and pack them all into yet another box to be shipped to our new Ohio home. I retrieve the
letters, the postcards, the mimeographs; I open the cabinet and put them back.
To my surprise my mother is satisfied with this. In fact she seems relieved. “Everything
will be here for you whenever you want it,” she says. …
}}
[[
9 In stating “We want to contain it” (lines 8 and 9),
the narrator suggests that she wishes to
(1) cling to the past
(2) bury old feuds
(3) erase unpleasant memories
(4) limit her inner fears
10 The simile “displaced as those mountains
vanished in the fog” (lines 13 and 14) suggests
that the narrator feels
(1) fortunate (3) unsettled
(2) encouraged (4) fearful
11 The narrator’s description of her childhood room
(lines 16 through 19) was foreshadowed by which
phrase?
(1) “The air is pulpy” (line 1)
(2) “What do we keep it all for?” (line 4)
(3) “unused wedding presents” (line 4)
(4) “I feel loose-footed” (line 13)
12 By urging the narrator to “weed things out”
(line 20), her mother is expressing her
(1) thoughts about the future
(2) concerns with personal safety
(3) anxiety to redecorate the room
(4) nervousness about neighbors’ opinions
13 The narrator’s passing on the pendant, scrapbook,
and doll to her daughter can be seen as
(1) selfish (3) educational
(2) insulting (4) revealing
14 The conclusion of the passage suggests that the
narrator and her mother
(1) share common values
(2) reach an emotional crisis
(3) compete for the child’s affection
(4) begin to drift apart
]]
&&Margot Singer
excerpted from “Afterimage”
River Teeth, Spring 2008&&
##June 2011##
{{
…Inspired by another successful eradication [of malaria] in Sardinia, in 1955 the World
Health Organization (WHO) inaugurated what was then the most ambitious campaign
against disease in history, the Global Malaria Eradication Programme. The program
included spraying home interiors with insecticides and distributing antimalarial drugs to
people in affected regions. But WHO’s efforts yielded only partial success. The disease did
disappear in Europe, Russia, Australia and most of the Caribbean. South Asia initially saw
dramatic reductions of infections, but the disease soon bounced back. Other hotspots fared
even worse.
What went wrong? In a word, everything. The parasites fought back, becoming
resistant to common medications. The mosquitoes grew stronger too, as more and more of
them were able to survive insecticides. In some climates, mosquitoes bred so quickly that
insecticide applications simply couldn’t keep up. All the while, local tribes were waging wars
of their own, which bogged down already-inadequate health infrastructures1 and made public
health interventions difficult and dangerous. In 1969, WHO shut down its program.
National malaria-control programs followed, but they later fell into neglect or were
abandoned entirely. …
Spraying insecticides isn’t the only way to use them. Mosquito-repellent bed nets2
treated with a class of insecticides called pyrethroids, which bind more easily to nets than
DDT,3 cost just $1 to $2 apiece in Africa. And nets give some major bang for their buck: A
study published last year found that a 10-fold increase in nets resulted in 44 percent fewer
deaths among Kenyan children in the studied areas. In September of 2006, Kenya’s
government used a $17-million Global Fund grant to provide 3.4 million
insecticide-treated nets to children. Zambia followed its lead. In 2006, 23 percent of
Zambian children slept under treated nets, up from 1 percent in 2000. …
In the face of widespread drug resistance, scientists have turned to a flowering shrub
called wormwood (Artemisia annua), the active ingredient of which, artemisinin, has potent
anti-fever properties. Since 2004, when WHO began promoting the use of artemisinin
worldwide, the drug has proved to be extremely fast-acting and effective against
P. falciparum.
4 WHO now recommends it or its derivatives as the first line of defense
against the parasite in areas where chloroquine5 no longer works, such as much of
sub-Saharan Africa. Artemisinin is now one of the most powerful tools against malaria. …
Fortunately, powerful synthetic versions of the drug are on the horizon. Since 2000,
pharmaceutical scientists at the University of Nebraska Medical Center have been working
on an entirely synthetic antimalarial designed to mimic artemisinin. In preclinical lab tests,
the drug, called OZ277, was found to be even more effective than artemisinin derivatives.
The medication is currently in the last stage of clinical trials and, although a price for the
drug has not been determined, it will probably be less expensive than artemisinin. …
Complete eradication of malaria on the scale of polio will never be achieved without a
vaccine. Creating that magic bullet, however, has been a tremendous challenge. Obstacles
include the complexity of the parasites and their ability to quickly change and adapt. We
also don’t completely understand our bodies’ immune response to them. But a vaccine is
finally on the horizon. Over the past 25 years, the pharmaceutical company
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals has spent $300 million developing a malaria vaccine against
P. falciparum. RTS,S, as it’s called, helps the immune system fight off the parasites by 
blocking their ability to reproduce and develop in the liver, where they first arrive and
multiply. With grants from the Gates Foundation and other groups, the company recently
tested RTS,S on humans. Last October [2007], the vaccine was shown to reduce the risk of
malarial infection by 65 percent among infants in Mozambique—a huge victory. …
}}
[[
15 According to the first paragraph, the malaria
threat has returned to
(1) Europe (3) the Caribbean
(2) Australia (4) South Asia
16 The purpose of “What went wrong? In a word,
everything” (line 9) is to
(1) characterize the World Health Organization
(2) convey the seriousness of the problem
(3) show measures being taken to end malaria
(4) describe the symptoms of the disease
17 The passage states that the only sure solution to
the malaria problem will be to
(1) redesign living spaces
(2) increase insecticide use
(3) improve farming methods
(4) develop an effective vaccine
18 The purpose of the dash in line 48 is to signal
(1) an unanswered question
(2) a conflict between researchers
(3) an important result
(4) a change in perspective
19 The tone at the end of the passage can best be
described as
(1) hopeful (3) humorous
(2) angry (4) frustrated
20 The ideas in the passage are supported primarily
through the use of
(1) claim and counterclaim
(2) rhetorical questions
(3) facts and statistics
(4) personal narrative
]]
&&excerpted from “How to End Malaria”
Science Illustrated, July/August 2008&&
##June 2011##
{{
To see me backpacking, you’d never know I’m the same woman whose blood pressure
rises at the sight of crumbs on her kitchen counter. It’s hard to imagine I rage against the
dust bunnies and grit on my hardwood floor, when here in Yosemite’s backcountry I sleep
on dirt, stir it into my oatmeal and shake it from my boots. My hair, skin and clothes
thicken with grime each day. Filthy and blistered, I am happier than I have felt in years.
Perhaps it is the constant exertion that makes me so patient, content. After hauling a
pack stuffed with six days of food and gear up mountain passes, down steep ravines, and
across meadows, I find myself at sunset, hungry and worn to bliss. It’s far from the exhaustion I feel after a grueling day teaching, paying bills, and cooking. No, this is purely
physical. My body aches for sleep, but my mind is as clear as the dusk light on Vogelsang
Lake. In this new place, I feel I’ve come home.
At the first light of dawn, I awake to scurry up rocks to watch the sunrise spread soft
pinks, then fiery yellow across the slate sky. In the meadow below me, two deer perk up
their heads to scrutinize a sound on the wind. They begin running and I scan the fields
expecting to see a bear, wolf, or other reason for their flight. Seeing no animal, I wonder if
they’re just running to run, something I rarely do. At home, I’m so busy trying to keep up
with my own expectations I’m always running towards something or from something. Here
in Yosemite, there is no such pull. Clutched in the palm of these granite cathedrals, I’m in
awe, a lithe1 lupine2 warming to the sun.
Perhaps this is why dirt in the wilderness never bothers me. I don’t need to control it or
mop it away. It’s not my dirt or my husband’s dirt to clean, but the soil for ponderosas,
sequoias and tufts of mountain grass. It belongs here—crunching beneath my boots, lining
valleys between glacial peaks. Yosemite’s dirt doesn’t hover behind windows or wait in
painted corners to be swept into a plastic bag. It is the ground beneath me.
I pick up a handful of pine needle-saturated soil and imagine hurling it across my living
room rug. How much dirt would it take to make my house a home? Could I carry this same
mountain peace back to my rectangular plot of driveway and lawn cut into a grid of streets?
Sifting soil through my fingers, I’m suddenly confused by the shiny black and white
linoleum we installed in our kitchen floor. How did I get so far from this place?
I’ve spent too many years identifying comfort with the mattress on my bed and the
water pressure in my shower. Comfort is also this moment sitting with my butt numb from
cold granite, my legs sunburned and caked in dust, my feet blistered and sweating in wool
socks. I wonder how I can remember this luxury when I return home to my terry cloth
robe? Is sanity ever possible within four walls, or will I always hover like dust in window
sunbeams, restless to be outside again?
}}
[[
9 The phrase “worn to bliss” (line 8) indicates that
at the end of the hike the narrator feels
(1) confused and angry
(2) sad but hopeful
(3) cold and hungry
(4) tired but satisfied
10 The narrator’s comments about her own expectations in lines 16 and 17 illustrate that she
(1) performs dangerous tasks
(2) feels pressured
(3) dislikes her job
(4) craves attention
11 The wilderness setting in the third paragraph is
developed primarily through the use of
(1) imagery (3) characterization
(2) symbolism (4) personification
12 The narrator indicates that the dirt in Yosemite
does not frustrate her because
(1) she cleans up her trash
(2) no one else is bothered
(3) it naturally occurs there
(4) it looks unusual
13 Throughout the passage, the narrator implies
that she
(1) is afraid of wildlife
(2) admires neatly mowed lawns
(3) wants to sell her home
(4) feels content in the wilderness
14 The main purpose of this passage is to
(1) narrate a personal journey
(2) persuade readers to camp
(3) describe the value of exercise
(4) explain feelings of insecurity
]]
&&—Tonya Ward Singer
“Dirt”
In the Mist Magazine, Issue 1.1
www.inthemistmag.com&&
##August 2011##
{{
Sure, you know their names, possibly better than you know the name of the street you
live on—almost every writer does. When the need comes, these names drip lightly and
quickly off our tongues like they were our own brothers. I am thinking about the famed
eponymous1 duo Webster’s Dictionary and Roget’s Thesaurus.
But I dare say, almost none of us can identify the actual person or conjure up anything
about him. Don’t report me, but neither did I until I started to write this column.
Webster’s Dictionary. Many people can respond immediately: Noah Webster. We are
aware that he is the father of the dictionary. But who was he? What did he do for a living?
When did he live?
Noah was born in 1758, graduated from Yale University in 1778, and subsequently
graduated from law school. He produced the first American dictionary in 1806 and
published his sentinel work An American Dictionary of the English Language in 1828. His
interests led him to be a lexicographer,2 textbook editor, author, Bible translator and spelling
reformer. He campaigned for years to secure nationwide copyright privileges for authors,
and he succeeded in 1790. His ubiquitous3 mind produced extensive writings in epidemic
diseases, mythology, meteors, and the relationship of European and Asian languages. In
addition, he founded the first New York daily newspaper. He died in 1843.
Another dictionary eponym almost as well-known is Merriam-Webster Dictionary. So
we have to ask, “Where did Merriam come from? What relationship does Merriam have to
Webster?”
George and Charles Merriam purchased the right to revise Webster’s dictionary after
his death in 1843. They produced several revised and expanded editions, and the
“Collegiate” series was begun in 1898. The C. and G. Merriam Company eventually lost its
exclusive right to the Webster name and in 1983, the company name changed to MerriamWebster, Inc. with the publication of Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary. The
C. and G. Merriam Company has been owned by Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. since 1964.
That brings us to…
Roget’s Thesaurus. And it gives us the chance to learn about Roget, the man—
Peter Mark Roget. Who? What? When?
Englishman Peter Roget, MD, was born in 1779. He studied medicine and mathematics at the University of Edinburgh, entering at age 14 and graduating at age 19. He is
acclaimed as the creator of the first-ever thesaurus, a compilation of words and phrases
according to meaning rather than alphabetic order. It has been called one of the 3 most
important books ever printed, along with the Bible and Webster’s dictionary.
He began his monumental work Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases in 1805 but
did not release it publicly until 1852 — 47 years later. Meanwhile, he was earning a deserved
reputation as a distinguished physician and anatomist.
In his lifetime, he became a noted lecturer and writer on anatomy, sewer sanitation,
magnetism, bees, geology, and more. He wrote a landmark paper, “Persistence of Vision
with Regard to Moving Objects,” which stirred much research and dispute in the scientific
and optics community.
When Roget died in 1869 at age 90, his son, John, took over the Thesaurus and he
gradually expanded it.
[Physician and writer—what an interesting combination!]
So now you know these men—the “-nyms”4 in the eponyms. Not enough information?
As James Thurber suggested in the title of his 1941 book about baseball, You Could Look
It Up!
}}
[[
15 The opening paragraph creates a tone of
(1) authority (3) familiarity
(2) sympathy (4) irony
16 The author states that “these names drip lightly …
off our tongues” (lines 2 and 3) in order to
suggest that most people
(1) will recognize them
(2) have misquoted them
(3) will respect them
(4) have ignored them
17 Phrases such as “When the need comes” (line 2),
“Another dictionary eponym” (line 18), and
“That brings us to…” (line 27) serve to
(1) introduce theories
(2) define vocabulary
(3) indicate flashbacks
(4) provide transition
18 The use of the dash in “until 1852 — 47 years
later” (line 36) emphasizes Roget’s
(1) growing disinterest
(2) personal dedication
(3) poor scholarship
(4) excellent reputation
19 According to the passage, Noah Webster and
Peter Roget are alike because they both
(1) were physicians
(2) became professors
(3) had multiple interests
(4) established a charity
20 The purpose of the final paragraph is to
(1) caution future readers
(2) encourage further research
(3) restate accepted assumptions
(4) provide background information
]]
&&Arnold Melnick, DO
“But Do You Know Who They Were?”
from AMWA Journal, 2007&&
##August 2011##
{{
That night, Susan and I stood on the banks of the river, which was moving blackly with
its load of white ice floes.1 The floes were flat on the top and big as the floor of my cabin.
Some were as big as a river barge. They all moved downstream in a ghostly procession,
separated by jagged black lines where the water was bare. The edges crunched when they
touched and hissed when they swept by. In the center of the river, where the current ran
swifter, a band of floes moved much more quickly than those near the sides.
The moon was full, which would make the footing easier for Susan, for she must jump
from floe to floe to cross the river. We stood alone—hand in hand at the edge of water, our
skin separated by the wool of our mittens. No other eyes, no other soul, would watch her
go. Silence, stillness, cold. They chimed about us as one snowy chord. …
When I saw Susan step upon the ice, I bit my lower lip till the blood flowed down my
chin and crusted in the cold. Here the riverbank was no higher than a step, as from house
to yard. In the moonlight, new snow like sugar glittered atop the sheet of ice lying along the
bank. Behind her, in a lengthening path, Susan’s footprints indented the sparkling snow. She
moved toward the center of the river as calmly as though crossing a broad
moonlit road cut through the brush and trees of the wilderness.
When she came to the first black edge, she stepped across the open water as though it
were a mere stream. The next floe was smaller, and the next even smaller; they dipped or
tilted slightly when she stepped onto them. The spans of open water between them seemed
wider and wider, and sometimes she waited for the current to bring the ice rafts closer
together. Then she leapt the narrowed fissure and walked on. …
As the current accelerated and the spaces between floes widened, Susan ran and
jumped from raft to raft; my heart hung in the air with her. In the center of the river, the
swifter current zipped the ice rafts downstream, with Susan standing on one of them. Her
arms fluttered once for balance, twice. …
At last the treacherous midsection of river was traversed. She was far from me
now—a dark upright using the flatness: flying and landing, running and leaping, from floe
to floe. I saw shapes in the ice rafts, mostly like enormous animals, flat, not like a natural
swan or bear but flat as a cookie animal or a tin weathervane. Near the other side,
approaching a bend, she had to wait for her floe to come close to the bank. Holding the
stitch2 in my side, I continued walking as rapidly downstream as I could till I came to a high
but tangled shoreline that thwarted me. Soon the current would sweep Susan’s floe beyond
my sight. O, carry her close, carry her close, now, I prayed to the ice, and I prayed that
Susan would not feel herself passing beyond my sight and take the risk of trying to jump
ashore when the gulf remained too great. The floe that wheeled her toward the far shore
was like the palm of a hand, open and presentational.
Patient Susan! Her ice raft nudged the shore, and she jumped. Even as her shoes
landed on the snowy bank, she turned and looked exactly where I stood. Together we
lifted our arms, blowing each other a kiss across the water, for we had not kissed on 
parting, saving it till she should be safe, and trusting the sweet air to be our go-between.
And then one shout, though it was small from the distance, from Susan: Freedom!
}}
[[
9 In paragraph one, the narrator uses imagery to
establish both the
(1) mood and setting
(2) conflict and characters
(3) theme and structure
(4) tone and dialogue
10 The language of paragraph two creates a sense of
the characters’
(1) frustration (3) satisfaction
(2) fascination (4) isolation
11 The description of Susan’s movements in lines 17
through 21 indicates that she is
(1) reckless (3) frightened
(2) courageous (4) encouraged
12 The comparison between the floes and the “spans
of open water” (line 19) suggests an increasing
(1) pace (3) danger
(2) depth (4) excitement
13 The “dark upright using the flatness” (line 27)
most likely refers to Susan
(1) climbing up the river bank
(2) waving in the darkness
(3) sitting on an ice raft
(4) moving across the water
14 One conclusion that can be drawn from the final
line is that Susan has
(1) escaped (3) become wealthy
(2) found friends (4) competed
]]
&&—Sena Jeter Naslund
excerpted from Ahab’s Wife, 1999
William Morrow and Company, Inc.&&
##January 2012##
{{
Lynda LaPlante, 45, just wanted to do something nice for her boyfriend, Roland. So
when she heard that singer John Mayer was performing at the Tweeter Center in Mansfield,
Massachusetts, she surfed the Internet hoping to buy a pair of tickets. A “Buy Tickets Now”
Web link took LaPlante to TheSeats.com, where she nabbed two lawn seats at $60 each,
plus an additional $15 for shipping and $18 in service fees. Total price: $153.
Too bad the tickets really cost $24.95 each. Unbeknownst to LaPlante, she had just
made a way-overpriced, sorry-no-refunds deal on an Internet ticket site. There are two
types of ticket sellers, on the Web: the first, primary sellers, includes box offices and
authorized companies such as Ticketmaster and Tickets.com. The next group is known as
secondary sellers. These more risky dot-coms range from ticket brokers—companies that
scoop up in-demand tickets and resell them for more than face value (using automated
software and phone banks, resellers can snap up thousands of tickets within minutes of a
sale)—to marketplace websites such as StubHub, RazorGator, eBay, and Craigslist, where
individuals can sell tickets for any price, with almost zero guarantees for the buyer. The
result: a Wild West ticket market that’s become anywhere from a $3 billion to $20 billion
industry.
One of the scalper’s best weapons: deception. Thanks to the Internet, sellers can lure
buyers to sites that look official but are actually havens for high-priced tickets. That’s how
AARP THE MAGAZINE deputy editor Nancy Graham, 51, was duped. While searching the
Internet for “Wolf Trap”—a performing arts center in Virginia—and “tickets,” she
mistakenly ended up on GreatSeats.com and bought a pair of orchestra seats to a Doobie
Brothers concert for $160 each. Face value $40. “I feel like a fool,” she says. …
Price, however, isn’t the only problem: all too often buyers of scalped tickets don’t get
what they paid for. Arline Zatz, 69, forked over $200 for two $25 seats she bought while
personally visiting a local broker. “I knew they were overpriced and I resented it, but I took
them because they were supposedly in a superior location,” she says. Instead, her view was
blocked by a large television camera. Adding to her irritation: “We saw plenty of empty
seats.”…
Some artists are fighting back. In 2006 rock star Tom Petty launched a new fan club to
give faithful followers the first shot at the best seats for his summer tour. When ticket
brokers and independent scalpers joined the club to buy and then resell premium seats for
five times their retail value, Petty’s management and promoters had the last laugh.
Ticketmaster, the official distributor for Petty’s tour, and the various arenas painstakingly
matched seat locations listed for sale online with those purchased during the fan-club
presale—and voided more than 1,400 tickets so they could be resold to true fans. Buyers
had to show an ID to pick up their tickets on show night. Petty’s manger, Tony Dimitriades,
calls it “a step in the right direction and a major strike on behalf of the good guys.” …
Even industry giant Ticketmaster is making a stand with its online channel, “Stop the
Scammers” (www.ticketmaster.com/stopthescammers). The site allows consumers to report
ticket fraud and includes links to consumer-protection agencies. …
}}
[[
15 According to the passage, when Lynda LaPlante
purchased John Mayer tickets she became a
victim of
(1) cyber lingo
(2) corporate advertisements
(3) price gouging
(4) spam e-mail
16 Evidence of the passage’s use of informal
language is shown in which word?
(1) “nabbed” (line 4)
(2) “risky” (line 10)
(3) “deception” (line 17)
(4) “mistakenly” (line 21)
17 The purpose of the dashes as used in lines
10 through 13 and line 20 is to
(1) provide definitions
(2) introduce contrast
(3) identify the narrator
(4) present direct quotations
18 According to the passage, artists like Tom Petty
work with legitimate ticket brokers and venue
sites to
(1) organize tours
(2) protect consumers
(3) promote songs
(4) increase sales
19 The overall tone of the passage can best be
described as
(1) fascinated (3) amused
(2) confused (4) aggravated
20 A major purpose of the passage is to
(1) encourage new artists
(2) attract more fans
(3) educate ticket buyers
(4) advertise secondary sellers
]]
&&—Laura Daily
excerpted from “Good Seats, Bad Deals”
AARP THE MAGAZINE, May/June 2007&&
##January 2012##
{{
The forest stretching out before us covers the mountain slopes with splashes of
burgundies and yellows. The delicate hues melt into the blue sky like a runny watercolor
painting. The colors match our expectations for autumn in the mountains, but the scale is
out of kilter. Instead of towering trees, this forest barely reaches our knees.
On the tundra of Alaska’s Denali National Park, the short growing season and long
winters stunt willow, birch and alder trees into pigmy forests. The abbreviated spring and
summer compresses the wildflower bloom into July, and the fall display of colors into the
first two weeks of September. At high latitudes and high elevations, the seasons rush past
like a downhill skier. We can feel winter in the wind.
We first see a grizzly and her two cubs on a far ridge eating blueberries. The driver
stops, and we crowd toward the right side of the shuttle bus. The bear slowly makes her way
in our direction, the cubs following dutifully. Then one pauses to sniff something. The other
takes the opportunity to pounce, and the two roll and wrestle like playful kittens. The
clicking cameras sound like approaching thunder.
The bears disappear in a woody depression. We wait. Suddenly, they reappear a few
yards in front of the bus and cross the road. The 400-pound mother methodically raises a
blueberry limb with her powerful claw and delicately nibbles off the ripe fruit while the
whimsical cubs entertain us with their antics.
“I never dreamed we’d see anything this exciting,” one woman whispers. “I expected
incredible scenery and wildlife, but only at a distance. This is like living with the bears.” …
The bears continue feeding and playing, aware but unconcerned about our presence as
long as we stay on the bus. Paradoxically, “staying on the bus” is the best, and perhaps the
only, relationship humans can have that preserves the wild. We feel a part of nature the
most when our presence affects it the least. …
By the time we reach Eielson Visitors Center, Denali is socked in. As one of life’s
ironies, something as ephemeral1 as water vapor can completely obscure the most majestic
peak in North America. The next 30 miles to Kantishna Roadhouse, our overnight lodge,
offer unobstructed views of Denali, if only the clouds will lift. They tease us with glimpses,
but refuse to unmask the face of the mastiff. …
We arrive just as streams of the September sun break through low clouds and
illuminate the tops of the snow-covered peaks. Wisps of clouds hover over Denali like a
magician’s cloak, but finally the crest is unveiled. Now I understand why the natives called
the mountain “The High One.” The peak looms a mile above its 15,000-foot neighbors.
The beauty of the scene transfixes us. As if on cue, a moose wades into the lake to
create the perfect picture. The combination of wildlife and mountains epitomizes2 the
essence of pristine North America. We’re presented with the gift of wilderness personified. …
In Alaska, night doesn’t fall, it rises. The tide of darkness creeps up the mountains
slowly and engulfs the alpenglow3 until only the peaks shine pink. One by one they blink
out like fading beacons, until only Denali lights the sky.
Denali is not so much to be seen as felt. Elation from the power of the mountain surges
through us. The mountain dwarfs any thoughts we have, any conception we can possess of
its grandeur. It was and is and will be, while we mortals are as clouds sweeping past its face. …
}}
&&
—George Oxford Miller
excerpted from “Denali”
AAA Going Places, September/October 2009
&&
[[
9 The purpose of the first two paragraphs is to
(1) introduce a symbol
(2) establish a conflict
(3) establish a setting
(4) introduce an allusion
10 The simile in lines 8 and 9 is used to emphasize
the
(1) season’s beautiful colors
(2) vast blue sky
(3) variety of trees
(4) sudden climate changes
11 The description of the actions of the cubs in the
third paragraph suggests their
(1) fearfulness (3) neediness
(2) innocence (4) intelligence
12 The narrator’s use of the word “Paradoxically”
(line 22) reinforces the key idea that people should
(1) leave nature alone
(2) investigate wildlife
(3) keep memories safe
(4) support conservation
13 The descriptions used in lines 34 through 36
convey a sense of
(1) comfort (3) awe
(2) safety (4) order
14 The final phrase “we mortals are as clouds
sweeping past its face” is used to emphasize
Denali’s
(1) isolation (3) danger
(2) permanence (4) popularity
]]
##June 2012##
{{
…The man responsible for the layout and ambience of the modern shopping center was
not an American but a Viennese named Victor Gruen, who fled the Austrian Anschluss1 in
1938 and arrived in America with just $8 in his pocket. Within twelve years he had become
one of the country’s leading urban planners. Ironically, Gruen’s intention was not to create
a new and more efficient way of shopping but to recreate in America something of the
unrushed café-society atmosphere of European city centers. Shopping centers—or
shopping towns, as he preferred to call them—were to be gathering places for the
neighborhood, focal points of the community where people could stroll and meet their
friends, dally over a coffee or an ice cream, and only incidentally shop. Gruen was
convinced that he was designing a system that would slow suburban sprawl and tame the
automobile. How wrong he was. …
Shopping centers didn’t just transform towns, they often effectively created them. In
the late 1940s, Paramus, New Jersey, was a dying little community with no high school, no
downtown to speak of, and almost no industry or offices. Then two shopping centers were
built along Route 4—Macy’s Garden State Plaza and Allied Stores’ Bergen Mall. Within a
decade, Paramus’s population had more than quadrupled to 25,000 and its retail sales had
shot up from $5 million to $125 million. Much the same thing happened to Schaumburg,
Illinois. In 1956, it had 130 people. Then two things happened: O’Hare became Chicago’s
main airport and the Woodfield Shopping Center, with over two million square feet of retail
space, was opened. By 1978, Schaumburg’s population had increased almost four-hundredfold to fifty thousand and it was on course to become the second-biggest city in Illinois after
Chicago by the turn of the century.
As shopping centers blossomed, downtowns began to die. Between 1948 and 1954, at
the height of America’s postwar economic boom, downtown retailers in America’s thirteen
largest cities lost on average a quarter of their business. One by one, downtowns grew more
lifeless as stores and offices fled to the suburbs. Hudson’s Department Store in Detroit
closed after watching its annual sales fall from $153 million in 1953 to $45 million in 1981,
its last year—the victim, ironically of the automobile, the product that had brought Detroit
its wealth. Sears closed its flagship store on State Street in Chicago in 1983. All over
America, where downtown department stores survived it was as a matter of pride or of tax
breaks, and seldom one of commercial logic. …
Mall shopping had become America’s biggest leisure activity. Mall of America of
Minneapolis, the country’s biggest mall with 4.2 million square feet of consumer-intensive
space (still considerably less than the world’s biggest, the West Edmonton Mall in Canada,
with 5.2 million square feet), was forecast to attract more people than the Grand Canyon in
its first year of business. By the early 1990s, Americans were spending on average twelve
hours a month in shopping malls, more than they devoted to almost any activity other than
sleeping, eating, working, and watching television.
And what of Victor Gruen, the man who had started it all? Appalled at what he had
unleashed, he fled back to Vienna, where he died in 1980, a disappointed man.
}}
&&
—Bill Bryson
excerpted from Made in America, 1994
William Morrow and Company
&&
[[
15 Victor Gruen’s main purpose for creating the
shopping center was to provide a public place for
(1) socializing
(2) eating dinner
(3) shopping
(4) watching movies
16 As used in line 9, the word “dally” most likely
means
(1) work (3) study
(2) read (4) linger
17 The author suggests that areas with new shopping
centers actually
(1) increased their property taxes
(2) revitalized their public transportation
(3) developed into large townships
(4) transformed into recreational centers
18 The author demonstrates that by the 1990s
shopping malls had changed the way people
(1) define personal space (3) learn new skills
(2) spend free time (4) engage in exercise
19 Based on the passage, a reader can infer that
Victor Gruen’s disappointment resulted from the
(1) corruption of his dream
(2) small profits he earned
(3) downturn in the economy
(4) betrayal of his friends
20 The events in the passage are arranged primarily
in what format?
(1) order of importance
(2) compare and contrast
(3) cause and effect
(4) question and answer]]
##June 2012##

{{
I had just passed through Pillar City in South Field Township, Pennsylvania, juking my
pickup around the potholes on Market Street. It was crowded with anthracite1 coalminer
shacks lying shoulder-to-shoulder, their front porches a chaos of posts and roofs and
wrought iron. Nothing so grand as a pillar adorned them. The town looked like a train wreck
someone had forgotten to report, and after two claustrophobic passes down the main drag
I turned into a side street and out onto a dirt road, pulling into King George’s Filling Station
and Grille. The King looked at my Vermont license plates through the greasy window and
wiped his hands on his apron like he might have to reach for something.
I hadn’t expected the place to be so grim, but even the weather had conspired with the
shadowless November light. I was studying my road map, trying to find a way back to the
interstate without backtracking through town, and I had turned on the dome light so I could
see the thin numbered lines when a honey-dew green pickup pulled alongside mine.
A woman in the passenger seat rolled down the window with a dirty squawk, then
leaned back in her seat, ramrod straight, as a man leaned over her, head out the window.
“You lost?” the man said. The woman sat stiffly, as though he had a foul smell or she had
been seized by fear.
“No, just trying to figure out which way to go from here. I know where I am—thanks
for asking,” I said. …
“You must be lost,” he said.
So I decided to explain. “I’m looking up my family history—they’re from around here,
years ago. Worley’s the name. Know any Worleys?”
“I know Worleys.”
“Oh yeah? Probably distantly related. Think they’d talk to me?” I hadn’t actually
planned to look up anyone with the name, but it was a lead.
“Talk to anyone,” he said. Now the woman in the seat shifted uncomfortably and
glanced quickly at me. Perhaps she knew Worleys too.
I asked him to introduce me to anyone named Worley, someone who might be able to
fill in the gaps in my family tree. The day before I had tracked down an ancestor in the
county courthouse archives, a many-great grandfather Daniel. There I made a photocopy
of his 1836 will, a list of his worldly goods, which were spare and simple: a spinning wheel,
a splitting maul, two heifers.2 His farm had been in this part of the county, and checking the
phone book in the Roman Diner I had found a dozen Worleys listed in Pillar City.
I didn’t explain all of this to the man and woman in the green truck, but they agreed to
lead me to a house where some Worleys lived. I followed them down another road, a flat,
well-graveled route leading straight toward the Upper Tamark Creek. The road made a
sharp bend at the banks of the creek, and the woman in the truck ahead of me stuck her
arm out of the window, pointing at a two-story frame house sheathed in gray stone halfway
up. A man was in the side yard, weaving a riding lawnmower around stumps, an overturned
rowboat, outbuildings, and the carcasses of nameless machines. All the man seemed to be
doing was mulching leaves. I pulled into the horseshoe driveway, a little uneasy that the
green truck had not stopped and was now crossing the bridge over the Tamark. …
}}
[[9 In lines 4 and 5, the narrator describes Pillar City
primarily by using
(1) alliteration (3) personification
(2) onomatopoeia (4) simile
10 The narrator’s reaction to Pillar City could best
be described as
(1) resentment (3) suspicion
(2) disappointment (4) indifference
11 A clue to the narrator’s need for directions was
most probably his
(1) damaged pickup truck
(2) empty gas tank
(3) open road map
(4) mud-splattered tires
12 Why is the narrator driving through Pillar City?
(1) He is looking for employment.
(2) He is planning to settle there.
(3) He is tracing his family tree.
(4) He is going to attend college there.
13 Lines 15 through 26 are developed primarily
through the use of
(1) dialogue (3) figurative language
(2) flashback (4) vivid details
14 At the end of the passage, how does the narrator
feel as he approaches the Worley house?
(1) embarrassed (3) relieved
(2) unwavering (4) apprehensive]]
&&—Naton Leslie
excerpted from “Lost”
Marconi’s Dream, 2002
Texas Review Press&&
##August 2012##
{{
The automobile and the motion picture industry are icons of American life. The two
became the perfect match for inventor Richard M. Hollingshead Jr. when he combined
them and opened the first drive-in movie theater in Camden, New Jersey, in the summer
of 1933.
Hollingshead somehow knew that this type of movie theater could eventually prove
successful, basing his assumption on the fact that a certain segment of the population never
attended indoor movie houses. He felt confident that once his concept became a reality,
people would love the idea of watching movies from inside their automobiles, and he was
right.
Families were drawn to drive-in movie theaters due in part to their convenience. More
than just a movie was offered to the ticket holder: There was no need to get all dressed up,
you didn’t have to hire a babysitter, parking was included in the price of the ticket, and
dinner was just a quick walk to the concession stand. Drive-ins also became popular with
teenagers because it was the ideal place to take a date or socialize with “the gang.” What
could be better than dinner and a movie under the stars?
Toward the latter part of the 1930s, a depressed economy and a world war were just two
of the reasons for the somewhat slow development of drive-in movie theaters. All of that
would change by the mid-1940s.
After the war, America flourished. With a booming economy, hoards of families flocked
to the suburbs. The setting was perfect for the success of drive-ins. There was plenty of
affordable, available land and the “car culture” in America was just beginning.
The 1950s was the golden age for drive-in movie theaters. More than 4,600 were
opened for business during the prosperous and defining decade of the baby boom. To lure
in the family trade, playgrounds were built for children while live bands entertained adults.
Never mind that the movies were second-rate as was the sound quality—it was the
“drive-in experience” that kept moviegoers coming back for more.
As the decade neared an end, so did the popularity of going to the drive-in. By the
mid-1960s and well into the 1970s, “the drive-in experience” had become somewhat
tiresome. The inferior quality of the movies being shown combined with the antiquated
sound system led many customers back to indoor theaters.
During the 1980s more and more drive-ins began closing down for good. Many owners
jumped at the chance to sell their lots to land developers as a means of getting out of
a sagging business. …
Yet with all its adversity and struggle, the drive-in movie theater has endured. It has
withstood the test of time and has become a symbol for a public that is not quite ready to
give up on its nostalgic past.
Today many drive-ins appear to be enjoying a resurgence in popularity. Owners and
operators, taking pride in their establishments, are now offering Dolby sound along with
first-run movie releases. What began as the idea of one man in Camden, New Jersey, has
become a cultural icon for over half a century. Drive-in movie theaters have been and
always will be part of the American landscape.
}}
[[
15 Lines 5 through 9 describe Richard M.
Hollingshead Jr. as
(1) a scholar (3) an innovator
(2) a critic (4) an eccentric
16 Lines 10 through 15 suggest that the initial
success of the drive-in theater was based in part
on its
(1) economic appeal
(2) use of high quality movies
(3) serving of gourmet-style foods
(4) quiet atmosphere
17 According to the passage, what was one cause of
the decline in drive-ins during the 1930s?
(1) a population decrease
(2) stricter movie ratings
(3) unusual weather patterns
(4) less spending money
18 According to the passage, the survival of drive-ins
has been assisted by
(1) media attention (3) new zoning laws
(2) pleasant memories (4) tax reductions
19 In the final paragraph, the author predicts the
future of drive-ins with a tone that can best be
described as
(1) humorous (3) questioning
(2) objective (4) optimistic
20 The passage is developed primarily through the
use of what organizational pattern?
(1) hierarchical
(2) cause and effect
(3) chronological
(4) comparison and contrast]]
&&
—Elizabeth McKeon and Linda Everett
excerpted from Cinema Under the Stars, 1998
Cumberland House
&&
##August 2012##

{{
…Despite being overstretched, [Chef] Bugnard [of the Cordon Bleu cooking school]
was infinitely kind, a natural if understated showman, and he was tireless in his
explanations. He drilled us in his careful standards of doing everything the “right way.” He
broke down the steps of a recipe and made them simple. And he did so with a quiet
authority, insisting that we thoroughly analyze texture and flavor: “But how does it taste,
Madame Scheeld?”
One morning he asked, “Who will make oeufs brouillés today?”
The GIs [my fellow students] were silent, so I volunteered for scrambled-egg duty.
Bugnard watched intently as I whipped some eggs and cream into a froth, got the frying pan
very hot, and slipped in a pat of butter, which hissed and browned in the pan.
“Non!” he said in horror, before I could pour the egg mixture into the pan. “That is
absolutely wrong!” …
With a smile, Chef Bugnard cracked two eggs and added a dash of salt and pepper.
“Like this,” he said, gently blending the yolks and whites together with a fork. “Not too
much.”
He smeared the bottom and sides of the frying pan with butter, then gently poured the
eggs in. Keeping the heat low, he stared intently at the pan. Nothing happened. After a long
three minutes, the eggs began to thicken into a custard. Stirring rapidly with the fork,
sliding the pan on and off the burner, Bugnard gently pulled the egg curds together—“Keep
them a little bit loose; this is very important,” he instructed. “Now the cream or butter,” he
said, looking at me with raised eyebrows. “This will stop the cooking, you see?” I nodded,
and he turned the scrambled eggs out onto a plate, sprinkled a bit of parsley around, and
said, “Voilà!” …
It was a remarkable lesson. No dish, not even the humble scrambled egg, was too much
trouble for him. “You never forget a beautiful thing that you have made,” he said. “Even
after you eat it, it stays with you—always.” …
I was in pure, flavorful heaven at the Cordon Bleu. Because I had already
established a good basic knowledge of cookery on my own, the classes acted as a catalyst for
new ideas, and almost immediately my cooking improved. Before I’d started there, I would
often put too many herbs and spices into my dishes. But now I was learning the French
tradition of extracting the full, essential flavors from food—to make, say, a roasted chicken
taste really chickeny. …
But not everything was perfect. Madame Brassart [the school’s owner] had crammed
too many of us into the class, and Bugnard wasn’t able to give the individual
attention I craved. There were times when I had a penetrating question to ask, or a fine
point that burned inside of me, and I simply wasn’t able to make myself heard. All this had
the effect of making me work even harder.
I had always been content to live a butterfly life of fun, with hardly a care in the world.
But at the Cordon Bleu, and in the markets and restaurants of Paris, I suddenly
discovered that cooking was a rich and layered and endlessly fascinating subject. The best
way to describe it is to say that I fell in love with French food—the tastes, the processes,
the history, the endless variations, the rigorous discipline, the creativity, the wonderful
people, the equipment, the rituals.
I had never taken anything so seriously in my life—my husband and cat excepted—and
I could hardly bear to be away from the kitchen. ...
}}
[[
9 The description of Chef Bugnard as a “natural …
showman” (line 2) indicates that he was a teacher
who
(1) engaged his students
(2) demanded obedience
(3) expected success
(4) discouraged his students
10 The reference to Chef Bugnard’s “standards of
doing everything the ‘right way’” (line 3)
probably means that he required
(1) compliments (3) attention
(2) payment (4) perfection
11 The narrator uses the phrase “After a long three
minutes” (lines 17 and 18) to emphasize a sense
of
(1) completion (3) anticipation
(2) unreality (4) boredom
12 As described in the passage, Madame Brassart’s
policies caused the narrator to feel
(1) overworked by unscheduled assignments
(2) frustrated by large class sizes
(3) desperate for financial support
(4) embarrassed to ask for assistance
13 When the narrator describes her previous
“butterfly life” (line 38), she implies that she had
been
(1) casual (3) unhappy
(2) forgetful (4) fragile
14 What is the format in which this passage is
organized?
(1) order of importance
(2) chronological order
(3) personal anecdotes
(4) comparison and contrast]]
&&
—Julia Child and Alex Prud’homme
adapted and excerpted from My Life in France, 2007
Anchor Books&&
##January 2013##

{{You never forget your first iceberg.
The mass of drifting ice that dwarfs your ship is so beautiful, yet so improbable
looking, that you simply gaze in wonder. It seems that nothing that large could be natural—
and then it strikes you that something so enormous could only be natural.
Another realization soon dawns: These rock-hard floating mountains are dangerous.
Think not only of the 1912 Titanic disaster but of hundreds of other accidents, most
recently the sinking (with no loss of life) of the Antarctic tour ship Explorer in
November 2007. …
Now, as climate change is raising global temperatures, more icebergs are being born.
Antarctica generates far more of them than Greenland, the source of bergs in Arctic waters.
Antarctica’s are also much larger, sometimes reaching the size of small countries. Recent
data show the average atmospheric temperature has increased about 4.5 degrees
Fahrenheit in the western Antarctic Peninsula since the 1940s, making the region, along
with northwestern North America and Siberia, among the fastest warming on earth. This
jump has been implicated in the recent collapse of major ice shelves along the Antarctic
Peninsula, including the Wilkins Ice Shelf in 2008. As a result, thousands of new icebergs
have calved, or broken off, from ice shelves into the Southern Ocean at an accelerated rate.
Even as more icebergs are being created, scientists are learning that these
dangerous beauties are far from sterile, inert masses of ice. In fact, they dramatically alter
their environments biologically, chemically, and physically, making them islands of life in
the open sea. Knowledge of icebergs’ crucial role in the Antarctic ecosystem has come only
in recent years. Observers at sea had long remarked that they attract seals, penguins, and
seabirds, and divers had noticed that fish are more numerous near them than in the
surrounding sea. Now scientists are learning just what the attraction is all about.
Depending on their size, location, and the season, icebergs can be nurturers or
destroyers. During their existence—typically years from calving from an Antarctic or
Greenlandic glacier to their gradual melting as they drift into lower latitudes—they support
animals on, around, even inside their magnificent ramparts. They fertilize the ocean with
nutrients, boosting plankton production. Grounded bergs can shelter areas of the seafloor,
protecting bottom-dwelling creatures from free-floating icebergs, which can be
bottom-scouring marauders, furrowing the seabed at depths of more than a thousand feet
like gigantic plows, destroying all marine life unable to move out of the way. Large bergs
can also trap sea ice, impeding its annual breakup and thus depriving phytoplankton (algae
that take their name from the Greek words for “plant” and “wanderer”) of life-giving
sunlight, breaking the food chain at its first link. …
From personal experience, I know that icebergs will continue to astonish and
captivate visitors to the polar regions with their size and ethereal1 beauty. But now—just
when these ecosystems are in rapid flux due to global climate change—these frozen
masses are taking on a new dimension of wonder as we uncover their critical role in the
biology and chemistry of polar seas. No longer can we look at icebergs as mere passive
beauties. They are active agents of change, each one an icy oasis trailing a wake of life as it
drifts on its inexorable2 oceanic journey to melting.}}
[[15 Lines 5 through 8 introduce the concept of
(1) peril (3) humor
(2) mystery (4) peacefulness
16 By describing icebergs as “being born” (line 9),
the author is able to
(1) explain the scientific importance of icebergs
(2) measure the water displacement of one
iceberg
(3) show the difference between iceberg sizes
(4) relate icebergs to human experience
17 In comparing the icebergs of Greenland with
those of Antarctica, the passage reveals that those
of Antarctica are
(1) less prevalent (3) more massive
(2) more rounded (4) less attractive
18 According to the passage, scientists are now
discovering that some icebergs are able to
(1) provide power (3) warn sailors
(2) produce echoes (4) sustain life
19 The final paragraph indicates that icebergs will
continue to be sources of
(1) superstition (3) pollution
(2) fascination (4) recreation
20 In developing the passage, the author depends
heavily upon
(1) facts and details
(2) dialogue and stories
(3) fantasy and humor
(4) question and answer]]
&&—Jeff Rubin
excerpted from “Life on Ice”
Audubon, January–February 2009&&
##January 2013##

{{
…On the days that M’Dear1 washed her hair, she called them “Days of Beauty.” She
spent the whole day pampering herself, and she taught me how to pamper myself as well. …
During the wet, cold months that make up a Louisiana winter, M’Dear’s hair was so long
and thick that drying it could take all day. On those days we’d stay inside, cleaning, ironing,
and cooking up huge pots of gumbo. I’d climb up onto the big soft chair next to the
fireplace in the kitchen, and shine shoes or sew on buttons or do the other tasks she was
teaching me. I’d sit there and watch her work, watch her go in and out of the washroom like
a breeze was blowing her in.
On hot Days of Beauty, we’d put on our swimsuits and stand outside on the wooden
platform of the outdoor shower. It was my happy job to scrub clean buckets and other
containers and set them outside to gather rainwater to wash our hair. M’Dear would undo
my braid, pour the rainwater on my head, put on a little Breck shampoo, and wash my hair.
The sun shone down, my mother’s hands touched my head, and her fingers lathered love
into me. Never has my hair been so soft. Sometimes I still wash my hair in rainwater, to
remember.
After our hair was clean, M’Dear would leave hers down, and, still in our swimsuits,
we’d hang clean clothes outside to dry on the line, with me handing her clothespins out of
a small apron she had sewn for me out of flower sacks. I have a photo of us by the
clothesline, doing this very thing. We were working and smiling, squinting slightly in the
sunlight. I was just about to enter first grade, just about to leave behind those motherdaughter days of intimacy, of little maternal baptisms. M’Dear prepared me for that leaving
so that it was smooth and felt natural. Not all leavings are that easily prepared for.
After finishing chores and when our hair was dry, M’Dear and I would go down to our
pier, just before sunset. These memories are so vivid to me that I don’t need a photograph
to see them. I carry them inside me.
In one memory, it is growing toward twilight. We are sitting on the pier with the La
Luna River flowing by. …
And as the sun sparkled off the cocoa-red water and the wind stirred in the tall pines,
I stood behind my mother, my legs on either side of her, and brushed her hair. I lifted her
long chestnut hair up off her neck, twirled it up on top of her head, then let it fall,
watching its weight settle back down and around her shoulders. Then I’d lean my face into
her hair and smell it. I can close my eyes and smell it now: sun and vanilla.
What I first learned about love, I learned on that dock with M’Dear. The La Luna River
flowing by with its river sounds, the riverbanks with their lovely sweet citrus scent of
jasmine, the scent of M’Dear’s hair, the oils of her scalp, the fullness of her thick, long curls
against my hands, our breathing together, the closeness, her love for me—all of this knit my
soul together. When the fading sunlight hit the river, it bounced up to form iridescence, like
a halo, around M’Dear’s head. She is the most beautiful person in the universe. …
}}
[[9 What kind of mood is reinforced by lines 4
through 8?
(1) optimistic
(2) tranquil
(3) concerned
(4) unhappy
10 What role does the daughter play in the passage?
(1) narrator (3) audience
(2) antagonist (4) hero
11 One way M’Dear created “days of intimacy”
(line 21) was to
(1) read stories to her daughter
(2) visit family with her daughter
(3) involve her daughter in daily routines
(4) engage her daughter in decision making
12 Lines 28 through 32 are primarily developed
through the use of
(1) sensory details
(2) comparison and contrast
(3) order of importance
(4) rhetorical questions
13 What is the setting of the story?
(1) in a city (3) near a waterway
(2) on a farm (4) beside a mountain
14 The narrator’s conclusion that “all of this knit my
soul together” (lines 36 and 37) suggests the
(1) boredom from chores
(2) relationship between characters
(3) need for amusement
(4) importance of cleanliness]]
&&—Rebecca Wells
excerpted from The Crowning Glory of Calla Lily Ponder, 2009
HarperCollins Publishers&&
##June 2013##
{{During her junior year of high school, Candice Backus’s teacher handed her a worksheet
and instructed the 17-year-old to map out her future financial life. Backus pretended to buy
a car, rent an apartment, and apply for a credit card. Then, she and her classmates played
the “stock market game,” investing the hypothetical earnings from their hypothetical jobs
in the market in the fateful fall of 2008. “Our pretend investments crashed,” Backus says,
still horrified. “We felt what actual shareholders were feeling.”
That pain of earning and losing money is a feeling that public schools increasingly want
to teach. Forty states now offer some type of financial instruction at the elementary or
high-school level, embedding lessons in balancing checkbooks and buying stock into math
and social-studies classes. Though it’s too early to measure the full impact of the Great
Recession, anecdotally the interest in personal-finance classes has risen since 2007 when
subprime became a four-letter word and bank failures a regular occurrence. Now, a handful
of states including Missouri, Utah, and Tennessee require teenagers to take financialliteracy classes to graduate from high school. School districts such as Chicago are boosting
their offerings in money-management classes for kids as young as elementary school, and
roughly 300 colleges or universities now offer online personal-finance classes for incoming
students. “These classes really say, ‘This is how you live independently,’ ” says Ted Beck,
president of National Endowment for Financial Education.
Rather than teach investment strategies or financial wizardry, these courses offer a backto-the-basics approach to handling money: Don’t spend what you don’t have. Put part of
your monthly salary into a savings account, and invest in the stock market for the long-term
rather than short-term gains. For Backus, this means dividing her earnings from her
part-time job at a fast-food restaurant into separate envelopes for paying bills, spending,
and saving. “Money is so hard to make but so easy to spend,” she says one weekday after
school. “That was the big takeaway.”
Teaching kids about the value of cash certainly is one of the programs’ goals, but teachers
also want students to think hard about their finances long term. It’s easy for teenagers to get
riled up about gas prices because many of them drive cars. But the hard part is urging them
to put off the instant gratification of buying a new T shirt or an iPod. “Investing and retirement
aren’t things teenagers are thinking about. For them, the future is this weekend,” says Gayle
Whitefield, a business and marketing teacher at Utah’s Riverton High School. …
That’s a big goal for these classes: preventing kids from making the same financial
missteps their parents did when it comes to saving, spending, and debt. Though the
personal savings rate has shot up to 4.2 percent as of July 2009, that’s still a far distance from
1982, when Americans saved 11.2 percent of their incomes. It’s hard for schools to teach
strict money-management skills when teenagers go home and watch their parents rack up
credit-card debt. It’s like telling your kids not to smoke and then lighting up a cigarette in
front of them, Beck says. …
Even with these challenges, students such as Backus say learning about money in school
is worthwhile. After Backus finished her financial-literacy class, she opened up a savings
account at her local bank and started to think more about how she and her family would pay
for college. “She just has a better understanding of money and how it affects the world,”
says her mother, Darleen—and that’s down to the minutiae1 of how money is spent at-large
from taxes to bank bailouts to the federal government’s deficit. All of this talk of money can
make Backus worry, she says, but luckily, she feels prepared to face it.}}
[[15 The purpose of the high school class’s “stock
market game” (line 4) is to
(1) introduce a new course
(2) encourage personal savings
(3) learn about investment
(4) teach credit card hazards
16 According to the passage, student interest in taking
classes on finance has increased because of the
(1) state of the economy
(2) need for employment
(3) rate of graduation
(4) desire to purchase cars
17 According to the passage, taking moneymanagement courses will help young people to
(1) get accepted by colleges
(2) become very wealthy
(3) take more vacations
(4) prevent going into debt
18 According to the passage, from the early 1980s to
July 2009, the personal savings rate of Americans
shows that
(1) less money is being set aside
(2) new businesses are less secure
(3) stores are charging higher prices
(4) investments are showing lower yields
19 The author’s attitude toward financial literacy
classes is one of
(1) disgust (3) fear
(2) hope (4) joy
20 According to the passage, one result of Candice
Backus’s completing the class about money in
school is that she
(1) is debt free
(2) manages the family income
(3) will retire early
(4) feels more competent]]
&&—Nancy Cook
excerpted from “Getting Schooled About Money”
www.newsweek.com, September 2, 2009&&
##June 2013##

{{…To get to the blackberry patch, at the back of the farm, sometimes we drove the
pickup, which was a treat. Driving in the fields was a holiday of its own. The grass would
brush the underside of the pickup and you could hear it. Or if we didn’t drive, we walked
out there. Talk about tall grass. If you walked out there, you had to go through the big
pasture by the north pond. That pasture had tall fescue grass1 you had to wade through. If
you sat down, the horizon vanished, the trees on the edge of the field vanished. You could
see just a few feet into the grass, and you could see sky. That was all. You could flatten down
the grass to make a little sitting area. You could make a path to another sitting area and have
two sitting areas and a path. Of course, once the grass was cut for hay, there’d be no more
of that kind of thing. The grass on the front hill was the same.
They were wild blackberries. Picking them was fun for about the first twelve berries,
then it was work, but you were allowed to eat as many as you wanted. Fresh blackberries
meant you got a cobbler for dinner. You could also put them on your cereal with honey. The
second day, maybe we would crumble hot biscuits into bowls, then sprinkle them with
berries, then add milk or cream, then add honey. It was almost the best thing a person could
eat. There was no name for it, so when you wanted it you had to say the whole thing:
“Biscuits with berries on them and then milk and honey in a bowl.” It was a breakfast or a
dessert for lunch or dinner or a snack for after dinner or night. That’s what it was. It was all
of that. …
The brambles would scratch you when you were picking berries. Like how a kitten
scratches you on your arms, even though they don’t mean it. Also, there were ticks,
chiggers and poison ivy. The hazards of the blackberry patch. You never saw any snakes out
there, but for some reason you were always told that there might be snakes. A watchful eye
was required.
It felt like a long way from the house, even though you could look across the pastures
and see the house on the hill, residing in the elm shade. Still, it felt like you were really out
somewhere. You knew the creek was not too far away. You couldn’t hear any roads from
there. If you looked up, maybe there was a jet making a line in the sky. Not that you could
see the actual jet, just the line. …
Before blackberry month, there were trips to pick strawberries at strawberry farms. For
about three days you ate as many strawberries as humanly possible. The rest had to be
cleaned, sliced, sugared and frozen. Then there were trips to go pick blueberries. And then
you ate as many of them as humanly possible. The rest had to be cleaned and frozen. Or
canned. Canning happened at night because it was too hot to do during the day and it
helped a lot if Dad was home to pitch in. The shadows slanted across the yard.
The shadows slanted across the garden. A horsefly droned past, on his way to
somewhere else. The barn swallows swooped and banked above the horse pasture. They
spiraled, dove. Their forked tails.
One flew right between the legs of the horse. You saw it. …}}
[[9 The primary function of the opening paragraph
is to
(1) identify the conflict
(2) establish the setting
(3) reveal the theme
(4) foreshadow the resolution
10 The words “That’s what it was. It was all of that”
(lines 18 and 19) illustrate that blackberries most
likely represent a
(1) difficult ordeal (3) personal goal
(2) community event (4) family ritual
11 The description of hazards in the blackberry
patch (lines 20 through 24) is included in order to
parallel
(1) real world dangers
(2) rejection of responsibility
(3) challenges to authority
(4) childhood dreams
12 The imagery of “The shadows slanted across the
yard” (line 35) is used to emphasize the
(1) changes in personality
(2) concern for the environment
(3) passage of time
(4) interest in history
13 The purpose of the last line is most likely to
(1) capture a moment in time
(2) reveal a tragic event
(3) introduce an important narrator
(4) indicate a shift in setting
14 The primary purpose of the second-person
narration throughout most of the passage is to
(1) expose the writer’s secret identity
(2) include the reader in the events
(3) present an antagonist in the plot
(4) highlight the importance of the setting]]
&&—Jeremy Jackson
excerpted from “Food, Animals”
The Missouri Review, Spring/Summer 2005&&
##August 2013##
{{From San Francisco to New York to Paris, city governments, high-class restaurants,
schools, and religious groups are ditching bottled water in favor of what comes out of the
faucet. With people no longer content to pay 1,000 times as much for bottled water, a
product no better than water from the tap, a backlash against bottled water is growing.
The U.S. Conference of Mayors, which represents some 1,100 American cities,
discussed at its June 2007 meeting the irony of purchasing bottled water for city employees
and for city functions while at the same time touting1 the quality of municipal water. The
group passed a resolution sponsored by Mayors Gavin Newsom of San Francisco, Rocky
Anderson of Salt Lake City, and R. T. Rybak of Minneapolis that called for the examination
of bottled water’s environmental impact. The resolution noted that with $43 billion a year
going to provide clean drinking water in cities across the country, “the United States’
municipal water systems are among the finest in the world.”…
Tap water promotional campaigns would have seemed quaint a few decades ago, when
water in bottles was a rarity. Now such endeavors are needed to counteract the pervasive2
marketing that has caused consumers to lose faith in the faucet. In fact, more than a quarter
of bottled water is just processed tap water, including top-selling Aquafina and Coca-Cola’s
Dasani. When Pepsi announced in July [2007] that it would clearly label its Aquafina water
as from a “public water source,” it no doubt shocked everyone who believed that
bottles with labels depicting pristine mountains or glaciers delivered a superior product. …
With sales growing by 10 percent each year, far faster than any other beverage, bottled
water now appears to be the drink of choice for many Americans—they swallow more of it
than milk, juice, beer, coffee, or tea. While some industry analysts are counting on bottled
water to beat out carbonated soft drinks to top the charts in the near future, the
burgeoning3 back-to-the-tap movement may reverse the trend.
In contrast to tap water, which is delivered through an energy-efficient infrastructure,
bottled water is an incredibly wasteful product. It is usually packaged in single-serving
plastic bottles made with fossil fuels. Just manufacturing the 29 billion plastic bottles used
for water in the United States each year requires the equivalent of more than 17 million
barrels of crude oil.
After being filled, the bottles may travel far. Nearly one quarter of bottled water
crosses national borders before reaching consumers, and part of the cachet4 of certain
bottled water brands is their remote origin. Adding in the Pacific Institute’s estimates for
the energy used for pumping and processing, transportation, and refrigeration, brings the
annual fossil fuel footprint of bottled water consumption in the United States to over 50
million barrels of oil equivalent—enough to run 3 million cars for one year. If everyone
drank as much bottled water as Americans do, the world would need the equivalent of more
than 1 billion barrels of oil to produce close to 650 billion individual bottles. …
Slowing sales may be the wave of the future as the bottle boycott movement picks up
speed. With more than 1 billion people around the globe still lacking access to a safe and
reliable source of water, the $100 billion the world spends on bottled water every year could
certainly be put to better use creating and maintaining safe public water infrastructure
everywhere.}}
[[15 What quality of bottled water is represented in
line 3 of the passage?
(1) convenience (3) flavor
(2) purity (4) cost
16 The resolution passed by the United States
Conference of Mayors in 2007 emphasized the
(1) health benefits from imported water
(2) high quality of public water
(3) tax money gained from bottled water
(4) outstanding taste of spring water
17 The author includes the phrase “pristine mountains or glaciers delivered a superior product”
(line 19) to illustrate a
(1) common misconception
(2) shared goal
(3) lasting impression
(4) basic condition
18 What is the primary focus of lines 32 through 35?
(1) consumer cost
(2) foreign influence
(3) national debt
(4) environmental impact
19 The author’s comparison of tap water to bottled
water illustrates that bottled water is
(1) “clean drinking water” (line 11)
(2) “ ‘the finest in the world’ ” (line 12)
(3) “incredibly wasteful” (line 26)
(4) “the wave of the future” (line 38)
20 The author develops the passage primarily
through the use of
(1) factual evidence
(2) cause and effect
(3) descriptive narrative
(4) question and answer]]
&&—Janet Larsen
excerpted from “Bottled Water Boycotts: Back-to-the-Tap
Movement Gains Momentum”
www.earthpolicy.org, December 7, 2007&&
##August 2013##

{{
I was lucky enough to discover my passion for flying when I was very young, and to
indulge that passion day after day. Lucky that some things went my way; my eyesight, for
instance, was good enough to allow me to become a fighter pilot. And lucky that when I left
the military, I found work as an airline pilot, when such jobs weren’t plentiful.
I still feel fortunate, after all these years, to be able to follow my passion. The airline
industry has its problems, and a lot of the issues can be troubling and wearying, but I still
find purpose and satisfaction in flying.
There’s a literal freedom you feel when you’re at the controls, gliding above the surface
of the earth, no longer bound by gravity. It’s as if you’re rising above the nitty-gritty details
of life. Even at a few thousand feet, you get a wider perspective. Problems that loom large
down below feel smaller from that height, and smaller still by the time you reach thirty-five
thousand feet.
I love that flying is an intellectual challenge, and that there’s mental math that needs to
be done all along the way. If you change the angle of the nose versus the horizon by even
one degree while traveling at a typical commercial airliner speed of seven nautical miles a
minute, it’s enough to increase or decrease your rate of climb or descent by seven hundred
feet per minute. I enjoy keeping track of all the calculations, staying aware of the weather
conditions, working with a team—flight attendants, air traffic controllers, first officers,
maintenance crews—while knowing intimately what the plane can and cannot do. Even
when the controls are being manipulated through automation, pilots have to back up the
computer systems with their own mental math. I like the challenge of that.
I also like sharing my passion for flying. It’s a disappointment to me that a lot of kids
today aren’t especially fascinated by flight. I’ve watched countless children walk past the
cockpit without paying much attention; they’re too focused on their video games or their
iPods.
When there are children who eagerly want a look inside “my office” at the front of the
plane, their enthusiasm is contagious. It’s so gratifying to see their excitement about something I care deeply about. If we aren’t busy during boarding, the first officer and I enjoy
inviting inquisitive children to sit in our seats in the cockpit, ask questions, and let their
parents take photos of them wearing a captain’s hat.
Being a pilot has a tangible end result that is beneficial to society. It feels good to take
a planeload of 183 people where they need or want to go. My job is to reunite people with
family and friends, to send them on long-awaited vacations, to bring them to loved ones’
funerals, to get them to their job interviews. By the end of a day, after piloting three or four
trips, I’ve taken four or five hundred people safely to their destinations, and I feel as if I’ve
accomplished something. All of them have their own stories, motivations, needs—and
helping them brings a rewarding feeling.
This is what gets me ready for work, and one of the things I look forward to. …
}}
[[9 Lines 9 through 12 suggest that flying offers the
narrator
(1) a test of his technical expertise
(2) an opportunity for better understanding
(3) an appreciation for natural beauty
(4) a vision of his future accomplishment
10 The narrator’s inclusion of details about his mental
stimulation demonstrates his
(1) expertise (3) creativity
(2) aggressiveness (4) impatience
11 The narrator expresses regret that some children
no longer seem to appreciate the
(1) expanse of the country
(2) value of education
(3) need to help others
(4) wonder of flight
12 Which phrase from the passage is used as a
transition?
(1) “purpose and satisfaction” (line 7)
(2) “also like sharing my passion” (line 22)
(3) “they’re too focused” (line 24)
(4) “at the front of the plane” (lines 26 and 27)
13 The phrase “a tangible end result that is beneficial
to society” (line 31) implies the narrator’s
(1) satisfaction (3) patriotism
(2) affection (4) optimism
14 The genre of this passage can best be described
as a
(1) social satire
(2) personal account
(3) critical commentary
(4) persuasive essay]]
&&—Captain Chesley “Sully” Sullenberger with Jeffrey Zaslow
excerpted from Highest Duty, 2009
HarperCollins Publishers&&
##January 2014##
{{
The steamboat Bertrand was heavily laden with provisions when it set out on the
Missouri River in 1865, destined for the gold mining camps in Fort Benton, Mont[ana]. The
boat snagged and swamped under the weight, sinking to the bottom of the river. It was
found a century later, under 30 feet of silt a little north of Omaha, Neb[raska].
Among the canned food items retrieved from the Bertrand in 1968 were brandied
peaches, oysters, plum tomatoes, honey, and mixed vegetables. In 1974, chemists at the
National Food Processors Association (NFPA) analyzed the products for bacterial
contamination and nutrient value. Although the food had lost its fresh smell and
appearance, the NFPA chemists detected no microbial growth and determined that the
foods were as safe to eat as they had been when canned more than 100 years earlier. …
Canned foods are more than a relic dug from the past. They make up 12 percent of
grocery sales in the United States. More than 1,500 food products are canned—including
many that aren’t available fresh in most areas, such as elderberry, guava, mango, and about
75 different juice drinks. Consumers can buy at least 130 different canned vegetable
products—from artichokes and asparagus to turnips and zucchini. More than a dozen kinds
of beef are canned, including beef burgers and chopped, corned and barbecued beef. …
Food-spoiling bacteria, yeasts and molds are naturally present in foods. To grow, these
microorganisms need moisture, a low-acid environment (acid prevents bacterial growth),
nutrients, and an appropriate (usually room) temperature.
Dennis Dignan, Ph.D., chief of FDA’s [Food and Drug Administration’s] food processing
section, explains that foods are preserved from food spoilage by controlling one or more of
the above factors. For instance, frozen foods are stored at temperatures too low for
microorganisms (bacteria, yeasts and molds) to grow. When foods are dried, sufficient
moisture is not available to promote growth.
It is the preservation process that distinguishes canned from other packaged foods.
During canning, the food is placed in an airtight (hermetically sealed) container and heated
to destroy microorganisms. The hermetic seal is essential to ensure that microorganisms do
not contaminate the product after it is sterilized through heating, says Dignan. Properly
canned foods can be stored unrefrigerated indefinitely without fear of their spoiling or
becoming toxic. …
Dignan also notes that foods packaged in materials other than metal cans are considered
“canned” by food processing specialists if the food undergoes the canning preservation
process. Thus, today a canned food may be packaged in a number of other types of
containers, such as glass jars, paperboard cans, and plastics that can be formed into anything
from pouches to soup bowls to serving trays. …
Foods with a naturally high acid content—such as tomatoes, citrus juices, pears, and
other fruits—will not support the growth of food poisoning bacteria. In tests, when large
numbers of food poisoning bacteria are added to these foods, the bacteria die within a day.
(The exact amount of time depends upon the bacteria and amount of acidity.) Foods that
have a high acid content, therefore, do not receive as extreme a heat treatment as low-acid
foods. They are heated sufficiently to destroy bacteria, yeasts and molds that could cause
food to spoil. …
Low-acid canned foods receive a high dose of heat—usually 107 degrees Celsius
(250 degrees Fa[h]renheit) for at least three minutes. (The amount of time the food is heat-
ed, though, depends upon the size of the container and the product.) The canned food
is heated in a retort, a kind of pressure cooker. …
Another critical element in the canned food process is sealing products in airtight
containers. It is essential that air be removed from the container before sealing. Air could
cause the can to expand during heating, perhaps damaging the seals or seams of the
container.
A telltale sign of loss of this vacuum1
—and a possibly contaminated product—is a can
with bulging ends. If a seal is not airtight, bacteria may enter the can, multiply, and
contaminate the product. …
}}
[[
15 This passage is introduced with
(1) a historical anecdote
(2) an effective argument
(3) a controlling metaphor
(4) an extended dialogue
16 Canning preserves food safely by
(1) increasing sodium levels
(2) eliminating microorganisms
(3) reducing its light exposure
(4) changing its chemical composition
17 Based upon the definition of the word “canned”
in lines 32 through 35, which product would not
be considered a canned product?
(1) a jar of peanut butter
(2) a basket of peaches
(3) a sealed snack packet
(4) a bottle of orange juice
18 Tests have indicated that certain foods require
less processing because those foods
(1) are not heat tolerant
(2) can be stored anywhere
(3) do not change color
(4) have high acid content
19 According to the passage, the vacuum seal on
preserved food can be compromised by
(1) overripe produce
(2) damaged seams
(3) lack of refrigeration
(4) overfilling during preparation
20 The passage concludes with a
(1) summary of the advantages of pressurization
(2) list of the best foods for preservation
(3) tip to avoid purchasing spoiled food
(4) suggestion to shop more economically]]
&&—Dale Blumenthal
excerpted and adapted from “The Canning Process”
FDA Consumer, September 1990&&
##January 2014##

{{On the day that gold was discovered near his village, Mohammed Muda Nor had
worked all morning tapping rubber.1 At one o’clock he walked out from the airy rows of
trees, waved to Abdullah, the entry guard, who was already eating his lunch, and started
down the dusty road home. The call to prayer wavered from the village mosque, and it
seemed to Muda that he could see it, waves of sound shimmering concurrently with the
midday heat. It was the end of the fruit season, one of the last hot weeks before the rains
began, and the weather was a fiery hand against his back. Muda walked with his straw hat
pulled down low over his forehead, so he didn’t see the children running toward him until
they were quite near. They circled around him and pulled in close, like the petals on a closing
flower.
“Pachik Muda.” It was his oldest nephew, a boy named Amin. He was wearing shorts
and holding the hand of his youngest sister, Maimunah, who stood brown and naked beside
him. “Uncle, our mother says for you to come quickly to the river.” …
“Tell your mother,” he said, “that I will come later. Right now I am going for my lunch.”
He expected them to run off then. They were the children of his sister, Norliza, and they
were rarely naughty. But instead Amin released his sister’s hand. He reached out and
tugged at Muda’s sarong.2
“My mother says to come,” he repeated. “Please, Pachik Muda, she says it is important.”
Muda sighed then, but he turned and followed the children back along the road. Red
rambutans3 and smooth green mangoes hung from the trees. He plucked some of these and
ate them as he walked, wondering what he would find on the riverbank. Norliza had worked
the rubber too, before she married, and she would not take him lightly from his rest and
prayers.
When he reached the river he saw a cluster of women standing on the grassy bank.
Norliza was in the center, her sarong wet to the knees, holding something out for the
others to see.
“Norliza,” he called. He was going to scold her for consuming his time with her bit of
woman’s nonsense, but before he could speak she ran to him and uncurled her fist. The
lines in her palm were creased with dirt, so that the skin around them looked very pale. The
words he had planned stopped in his mouth. For on her palm lay a piece of gold as large as
a knuckle. It was wet with river water, and it caught the noon light like fire in her hand.
“The children found it,” she said. “I was digging for roots.” Norliza was a midwife,
known in the village for her skill with herbs and massage. She came into the jungle every
week to search for the healing roots and bark. “I was digging there, near the trees by the
river. The children were playing next to me, sorting out the rocks for a game. This one they
liked because of its shine. At first I did not realize. It was only when Amin washed it in the
river that I understood.” Her dark eyes gleamed with an unfamiliar excitement. “To think,”
she said. “To think he might have dropped it, and I would never have known.”
Muda reached out and took the knot of gold. It was smooth, almost soft, against his
fingers. He ran his thumb against it again and again. Some of the women drew close to
stare. Others, he noticed, were already moving away with the news. …
}}
[[
9 In the phrase “Muda … could see it” (line 5), to
what does “it” refer?
(1) the mosque
(2) the rains
(3) the call to prayer
(4) the dusty road
10 The simile “like the petals on a closing flower”
(lines 9 and 10) suggests the
(1) guard’s attitude
(2) children’s movements
(3) uncle’s fears
(4) parent’s expectations
11 The attitude of Amin toward Muda (lines 13
through 18) can best be described as
(1) insistent (3) affectionate
(2) protective (4) curious
12 As he follows the children, Muda finds that he
must sacrifice his
(1) shady resting place
(2) future business project
(3) dominant social position
(4) limited free time
13 Norliza’s reputation in the village is based on her
(1) ability to make predictions
(2) skill at boat navigation
(3) knowledge of folk medicine
(4) ownership of fertile land
14 When Norliza says “I understood” (line 37) and
“I would never have known” (line 38), she is
indicating her
(1) willingness to spend more time with her
children
(2) obedience to Muda’s future decisions
(3) fear that her family’s jobs are in jeopardy
(4) conclusion that she could become rich
]]
&&—Kim Edwards
excerpted from “Gold”
The Secrets of a Fire King, 1997
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc.&&
##June 2014##

{{Norman Rockwell didn’t create his celebrated images using only brush and paint. They
often took shape first as scenes that Rockwell literally acted out, not only for his editors at
the [Saturday Evening] Post, but his real-life models, too. “It was strenuous,” he once
explained, “but I felt it was the best way to get across my meaning.” And so he would
enthusiastically play out his visions and ideas, a one-man show packed with just the right
expressions, giving enough details of each persona in the scene to inspire his models and,
more importantly, get his editors to buy his ideas.
Now, more than 30 years after his death, Rockwell is still acknowledged for deftly1
chronicling the best of 20th century American life with vignettes2 of simple emotions
evoked by everyday people. This phenomenon is a resounding testament to Rockwell’s
prowess as a storyteller and is the subject of another kind of one-man show: the upcoming
exhibition at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C., titled Telling
Stories: Norman Rockwell from the Collections of George Lucas and Steven Spielberg. The
exhibit, assembled from the private collections of these two popular film directors, will
feature rarely viewed pieces of Rockwell’s work, including George Lucas’ favorite, Lands of
Enchantment, which shows a youngster imagining himself as an armor-clad knight riding
away with a beautiful girl. The point is not the boy reading, but how the book inspires the
boy’s imagination, taking him, in idealized form, to another time and place. …
“Storytelling was very important to Norman Rockwell,” says Lucas. “Every image has
either the middle or the end of a story, and you can already see the beginning even though
it’s not there. You can see all the missing parts of the story because he took that one frame
that sort of tells you everything you need to know.
“And, of course, in filmmaking we strive for that. We strive to get images that convey,
visually, a lot of information without having to spend a lot of time at it. Norman Rockwell
was a master at that—he was a master at telling a story in one frame,” explains Lucas.
That concentration of information as well as emotion is something inherent3 in
Rockwell’s art. Emotion certainly spoke to Steven Spielberg when he first saw one of his
favorite Rockwell paintings, High Dive, the August 16, 1947 Post cover that depicts a boy
at the top of what must be (or so we imagine from the boy’s expression) a towering diving
board. He crouches high above a swimming pool, too afraid to either jump or climb back
down. The painting hangs in Spielberg’s office at Amblin Entertainment because it holds a
great deal of meaning for the filmmaker. …
Even in the creation of their work, Spielberg and Rockwell were more similar than is
immediately evident. To create his meticulously detailed recollections of everyday
American life, Rockwell worked much like a film director, not just acting out the scenes in his
imagination, but scouting locations, casting everyday people from his town for particular
parts, choosing costumes and props, and directing his performers to make them instantly
familiar to the public. Little wonder then, that filmmakers like Spielberg and Lucas, as well
as others, should be so inspired by his work.
In directing his own scenes, Rockwell had a specific focus, just not one based on the
stark realism in which he grew up. Instead, Rockwell aimed to depict life in a kind of
realistic fantasy. He later remarked in his autobiography, My Adventures as an Illustrator,
“I paint the world not as it is, but as I would like it to be.” …}}
[[15 Norman Rockwell successfully influenced his
editors by
(1) performing his ideas
(2) inviting them to dinner
(3) buying them expensive gifts
(4) sketching actual events
16 The subjects of Rockwell’s works were
(1) famous actors (3) public buildings
(2) ordinary citizens (4) simple landscapes
17 The purpose of the dash in line 25 is to
(1) define a word (3) introduce a list
(2) clarify a point (4) ask a question
18 The boy in the painting High Dive may inspire
the viewer to
(1) develop artistic skill (3) learn how to act
(2) appreciate nature (4) make a decision
19 Which phrase from the passage is an example of
personification?
(1) “a youngster imagining himself as an
armor-clad knight” (line 16)
(2) “the book inspires the boy’s imagination”
(lines 17 and 18)
(3) “Emotion certainly spoke to Steven
Spielberg” (line 27)
(4) “filmmakers like Spielberg and Lucas”
(line 38)
20 The closing of the passage, “I paint the world not
as it is, but as I would like it to be,” suggests that
Norman Rockwell was
(1) idealistic (3) scientific
(2) original (4) courageous]]
&&—Pamela V. Krol
excerpted and adapted from “America’s Artist,” Mar/Apr 2010
SaturdayEveningPost.com&&
##June 2014##

{{Skippy was the least important occupant of the house. He was loved, but he was never
consulted. It was taken for granted that the family’s will was his will, and that he would
follow blindly. He was their dog.
When the family decided to move, Skippy was not invited to voice his views. They
decided quite suddenly, on a day when everything seemed to go wrong. Mrs. Adams
watched the first prize go to Mrs. Cranston at the flower show. Mr. Adams came home from
the publishing house with a book to read and report on, and Mrs. Adams followed him up
to their bedroom, where he had retired to escape the sounds of banging doors, telephones,
and dinner preparations.
Buzz Adams stormed in cross as sticks because Sally, who lived next door, had given him
back his class ring. Chottie Adams drifted in dreamily from her first meeting with a tall, dark
and handsome young man. When the Adamses sat down to dinner, they began a round of
grievances.
Mrs. Adams said, with her mouth beginning to waver again, “It isn’t that Lila Cranston
has a better growing hand than I have. It’s because she has a bigger garden. She doesn’t
have to crowd things and let them run riot. I don’t know what I wouldn’t give to move to a
house with extensive grounds.”
Mr. Adams said vehemently, “I’d like to move, too. I’d like a house big enough to allow me
the luxury of a room of my own.”
“I wish we lived in a stately house,” said Chottie wistfully. “Every corner in this house is
crammed with Daddy’s old books. We live so informally.”
“If I may put my two cents in,” Buzz offered miserably, “I hate this whole neighborhood.”
“That’s it!” said Mr. Adams excitedly. “We will move tomorrow, not get out actually, but
tomorrow I’ll see the agent for the Thayer place. It’s quite an estate, but I can swing it and
the peace is worth the price.”…
Having arrived at this hasty decision to move within a matter of days, the Adamses
settled down to their excellent dinner, which they all ate with relish, for each thought that
the major problem in his life had just been solved.
Except Skippy, who, until this moment, had had no problems. He lay under the table in
his accustomed place by Buzz’ feet. Usually his head was up, his ears pointing forward, his
mouth ajar to release his eager panting, his tongue extended, and his expression one of
sublime expectancy. But as the human voices grew impassioned, Skippy’s keen perception
noted the shades of discontent expressed in each. He cocked his head and began to listen
intently. …
Skippy loved the house. He had lived in it practically all his life. Actually, you might
almost say it was his. For the thing was, the Adamses had bought it because of him. He had been
given to Buzz as a birthday surprise when he, Skippy, was three months old. Until then he had
lived in a kennel which could not be considered home life. He and Buzz had recognized
each other instantly as dog lover and boy worshiper. Two days later the apartment house
agent came over to register the complaint of the people downstairs, who could not accustom
their ears to the overwhelming sounds of a boy and his dog. The dog, the agent explained
regretfully, must go. 
They moved to a house in the suburbs as soon as a suitable one could be found. It was
a move the elder Adamses had been meaning to make ever since Chottie was born, but one
thing and another kept them chained to the city. And 14 years later a little dog led them to
the charming white house that might have emerged from their dreams. …
Now, after five years, as if they had slyly waited until he reached the age when the most
obliging dog balks at change and views the moving of his basket from one corner to another
as a complete upheaval of his lifetime habits, the Family was preparing to depart. …}}
[[9 As revealed in lines 1 through 4, the family’s
attitude toward Skippy’s desires is one of
(1) indifference (3) inclusion
(2) dislike (4) respect
10 The phrase “round of grievances” (lines 12 and 13)
refers to the family
(1) telling stories
(2) revealing hopes
(3) sharing complaints
(4) planning entertainment
11 What bothers Mrs. Adams so much about her
current home?
(1) the number of bedrooms
(2) the size of the property
(3) the shabbiness of the house
(4) the location of the neighborhood
12 The reasons for each family member’s urge to
move reflect
(1) individual desires
(2) economic concerns
(3) family goals
(4) political opinions
13 Mr. Adams’ decision to move the family tomorrow
is best described as
(1) selfish (3) spontaneous
(2) sensible (4) sympathetic
14 When did the Adams family buy their first home?
(1) when they got married
(2) before Chottie was born
(3) when they were set financially
(4) after Skippy was purchased]]
&&—Dorothy West
excerpted from “Skippy”
Daily News, April 29, 1946&&
##August 2014##

{{Elizabeth Blake suspended three flint blades from a small wooden frame. Holding her
cell phone in one hand, she took a piece of antler in the other and gently struck each blade
once. Over a bad transatlantic connection, our phone conversation had been difficult, but
the tones from the four-inch-long blades came through—clear, sweet, and crystalline.1 They
sounded like hand bells or struck goblets. The blades are replicas of 30,000-year-old
artifacts from the sites of Isturitz in the French Pyrenees and Geißenklösterle in
southwestern Germany.
Blake, who is the granddaughter of an opera singer and the daughter of a pianist, is an
archaeology graduate student at Cambridge University. One of the newest members of a
developing sub-discipline, the archaeology of music, she is basing her research on the
hypothesis that our earliest ancestors discovered and enjoyed a peculiar property of some
stone tools—they rang. …
The major difficulty that prehistoric musicologists face is that it’s so easy to make music
without leaving a trace. In addition to dancing and singing, hunter-gatherer cultures used
natural materials to create instruments. Native Americans shook rattles made from gourds.
Australian aborigines played instruments called didgeridoos fashioned from huge tree limbs
or bamboo. The San of southwest Africa plucked the gut strings of their wooden hunting
bows. What are the odds these would survive for thousands of years to be found (let alone
correctly identified) by an archaeologist? The best anyone can expect to discover is when
humans first began to create reliable and durable instruments.
Graeme Lawson, an independent archaeologist in England who heads a multidisciplinary2
organization known as Cambridge Music-Archaeological Research believes that some
objects now on display in museums may actually be misidentified musical artifacts. One
case in point is a medieval “garment clasp” that was made from a pig knuckle. Lawson
analyzed the wear patterns and polish around a hole that had been drilled through the
center of the bone and showed they were consistent with the patterns found on “buzz
bones,” a type of noise maker that was used as a children’s toy in some parts of Europe until
a few decades ago. When the knuckle bone was tied to a string and whirled through the air,
it would have made an eerie, ghostlike sound.
How many ancient objects now labeled as “garment clasps” were actually used as noise
makers? How many flint artifacts doubled as chimes? There’s plenty for an avid music
archaeologist to do without ever touching a spade.
The oldest indisputably musical artifacts are flutes (experts call them “pipes”) made
from the bones of birds. They come from two sites, Isturitz and Geißenklösterle. The pipes
were found in excavation levels associated with Europe’s earliest modern human
population, the Aurignacian culture. The people at these sites created jewelry, made
paintings, and crafted sculptures that represented human figures, showing that music was
just one part of an artistic revolution that started in Africa more than 100,000 years ago and
was brought to Europe by anatomically modern humans around 40,000 years ago. …
What does survive, of course, is stone. It may seem odd to think of stones as musical,
but [Ian] Cross [a Cambridge musicologist] points out that so-called lithophones have been
documented in many cultures. Musicologists and anthropologists have recorded or
described ringing stones and “rock gongs” in India, the Americas, Europe, Southeast Asia,
and Africa.
When Cross first began to explore the potential of flint blades as lithophones, he
considered them as percussion instruments like primitive castanets.3 Touched together,
they do make a dull click. It took an archaeologist and a skilled flint-knapper to point out
the larger possibilities. Ezra Zubrow of SUNY Buffalo and Frank Cowan of the Cincinnati
Museum of Natural History showed Cross that thin, elongated pieces of flint could produce
a tone like a chime. You could say that the idea resonated. …
}}
[[15 The tones Elizabeth Blake transmitted in her
phone call (lines 1 through 5) served to
(1) emphasize the importance of music
(2) introduce the passage’s main idea
(3) identify cultural differences
(4) present conflicting attitudes
16 It is difficult to identify artifacts used to make
prehistoric music because these artifacts
(1) are natural objects
(2) have harsh sounds
(3) are very durable
(4) have religious meaning
17 The use of rhetorical questions in lines 30 and 31
emphasizes that
(1) ancient instruments were often banned
(2) scholars must examine more archaeological
evidence
(3) instrument making requires great skill
(4) discovered artifacts may have been 
misinterpreted
18 As used in line 33, the word “indisputably” most
probably means
(1) valuable (3) certain
(2) popular (4) crafted
19 The use of the word “resonated” in line 50 suggests
that the idea of stones creating music is now
(1) somewhat doubted (3) widely accepted
(2) rarely considered (4) openly ridiculed
20 The passage strengthens the discussion of
prehistoric music through the use of
(1) quotations from musicians
(2) research by archaeologists
(3) claims by reporters
(4) anecdotes from artists]]
&&—Lois Wingerson
excerpted and adapted from “Rock Music”
Archaeology, September/October 2008&&
##August 2014##

{{In all years and all seasons, The Bridge was there. We could see it from the roof of the
tenement where we lived, the stone towers rising below us from the foreshortened streets
of downtown Brooklyn. We saw it in newspapers and at the movies and on the covers of
books, part of the signature of the place where we lived. Sometimes, on summer afternoons
during World War II, my mother would gather me and my brother Tom and my sister,
Kathleen, and we’d set out on the most glorious of walks. We walked for miles, leaving
behind the green of Prospect Park, passing factories and warehouses and strange
neighborhoods, crossing a hundred streets and a dozen avenues, seeing the streets turn
green again as we entered Brooklyn Heights, pushing on, beaded with sweat, legs rubbery,
until, amazingly, looming abruptly in front of us, stone and steel and indifferent, was The
Bridge.
It was the first man-made thing that I knew was beautiful. We could walk across it,
gazing up at the great arc of the cables. We could hear the sustained eerie musical note they
made when combed by the wind (and augmented since by the hum of automobile tires),
and we envied the gulls that played at the top of those arches. The arches were Gothic, and
provided a sense of awe that was quite religious. And awe infused the view of the great
harbor, a view my mother embellished by describing to us the ships that had brought her
and so many other immigrants to America—the Irish and the Italians and the Jews, the
Germans, the Poles, and the Swedes, all of them crowding the decks, straining to see their
newfound land. What they saw first was the Statue of Liberty, and the skyline, and The
Bridge. The Brooklyn Bridge. …
There was a long time in my life when I didn’t see much of The Bridge, except from the
roof or the back window. The reason was simple: Trolleys were replaced by automobiles,
and nobody I knew in our neighborhood owned a car. But then when I was sixteen, I got a
job in the Brooklyn Navy Yard as a sheet-metal worker, and at lunchtime we would wander
out along the cobblestone streets beside the dry docks, and from there we could look up at
The Bridge. “Now the cats that built that,” a black welder named Fred Thompson said to
me one day, “they knew what they were doin’.”
They certainly did. As I grew older, I came increasingly to see The Bridge as a
monument to craft. It was New York’s supreme example of the Well-Made Thing. All
around us in the sixties, the standards of craft eroded. As aestheticians1 proclaimed the
virtues of the spontaneous, or exalted the bold gesture, or condemned form as an artistic
straitjacket, I would cross The Bridge and wonder what they could mean. More than
twenty men were killed in the construction of this thing, and others were ruined for life by
accidents and disease suffered in its service. To those men, carelessness meant death, not
simply for themselves, but for the human beings who would use what they were making. So
they had no choice: They had to make it to last. And in doing so, in caring about detail and
function and strength, they saw craft triumph into art. …
Of course, it is the nature of all bridges that they travel in two directions. I know dozens
of people who traveled west on The Bridge, wandered the world, and then made the long,
wide circle home to Brooklyn. I don’t know anybody who ever did that from the Bronx.
From the Manhattan shore, The Bridge still seems to whisper: “Come, travel across me. It’s
only 1,562 feet across the river, and over here, and beyond, lies Oz, or Camelot, or
Yoknapatawpha County.”2 And from the Brooklyn side it speaks in plain, bourgeois3 tones,
with a plain, simple message: “Come home.” …
}}
[[9 By referring to the Brooklyn Bridge as “The
Bridge,” the narrator communicates his
(1) respect (3) arrogance
(2) disdain (4) understanding
10 The imagery used in lines 12 through 15 appeals
to the reader’s sense of
(1) touch and sound (3) sight and sound
(2) smell and taste (4) sight and smell
11 The narrator enriches the historical significance
of The Bridge by referring to
(1) immigration experiences
(2) construction materials
(3) musical notations
(4) political consequences
12 Which phrase from the passage best signals that
time has elapsed?
(1) “I didn’t see much of The Bridge” (line 22)
(2) “But then when I was sixteen” (line 24)
(3) “at lunchtime we would wander” (line 25)
(4) “from there we could look up at The Bridge”
(lines 26 and 27)
13 The phrases “monument to craft” (line 30) and
“Well-Made Thing” (line 30) are most closely
related to which other phrase from the passage?
(1) “proclaimed the virtues of the spontaneous”
(lines 31 and 32)
(2) “condemned form as an artistic straitjacket”
(lines 32 and 33)
(3) “To those men, carelessness meant death”
(line 35)
(4) “caring about detail and function and
strength” (lines 37 and 38)
14 According to the narrator, in addition to offering
opportunities, The Bridge will
(1) be maintenance free
(2) be a tourist attraction
(3) bring a traveler home
(4) provide military security]]
&&—Pete Hamill
excerpted from “Bridge of Dreams”
New York Magazine, May 30, 1983&&
##January 2015##
{{The common raven (Corvus corax) holds a special fascination for bird lovers because of
its complex, even baffling behaviors and its aura of mystery—which are revealed in fact and
embellished in legend.
This denizen1 of northern latitudes and high altitude is North America’s largest
passerine, or perching bird, and a relative of the crow. With a length of 24-26 inches and a
wingspan in excess of four feet, this iridescent black bird presents an imposing sight
especially when it skillfully executes hawk-like flight motions during courtship displays and
while guarding its nest. The raven, you see, is a bit of an aerial acrobat and seems to fly for
the sheer joy of it. Rolls, somersaults and even level flight upside-down may be the most
spectacular behaviors the casual birder will be able to observe.
Because both birds are large, black, and similarly shaped, it can be hard to tell the
common raven from the American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos). In addition to being
somewhat larger, ravens have a heavier beak with a decided “Roman nose” appearance.
They also have shaggy throat feathers, called hackles, which can be slicked down or fluffed
out, apparently to aid communication. In flight, their rounded, wedge-shaped tails and
feathers resemble extended fingers near the ends of their wings. …
The raven is both predator and scavenger. Although omnivorous, most of its diet is
animal matter, including insects, lizards, frogs, rodents and the eggs and young of other
birds. In addition, it regularly dines on carrion2 and garbage.
The raven’s sometimes inexplicable and genuinely annoying habits—they’ve been
known to harass livestock and pets, pilfer golf balls and peck holes in the skins of
unattended light airplanes—led to human reactions that thinned its ranks, particularly in
the Northeast. This bird has made a remarkable comeback in the last few decades,
however, partly due to its ability to take advantage of the presence of people. The raven can
survive everything from arctic to desert conditions, often aided, ironically, by garbage
dumps and other artifacts of human settlement. …
Raven pairs stay together throughout the breeding season and usually bond for life.
Courtship displays generally begin in February, just before breeding. Pairs often return to
previous nesting areas and begin a spectacular aerial courtship ritual. They perform unison
flight maneuvers, sometimes circling their chosen nest site with wingtips nearly touching.
Occasionally, the male takes steep, sudden dives or tumbles in mid-air. Feather-preening
seems to be a common activity while earthbound.
Ravens prefer remote, forested areas with tall coniferous trees or rocky ledges where
they can build nests and catch air currents that loft them into soaring flights. They also nest
on rugged seacoasts and forested marine islands, as are found off the coast of Maine. …
Nests tend to be built in solitary places, typically miles from other raven nests.
Sometimes, new nests are built atop old ones, although nesting pairs may alternate among
two or more sites in the same nesting area from year to year. In this way, the best nesting
areas can be used for 100 years or more. …
Many a researcher has discovered firsthand the cunning ways of the raven. Generally
acknowledged to be among the most intelligent of birds, ravens display a seeming social
awareness, even with other species, and surprising problem-solving abilities.
Accounts abound of ravens closely following large predators such as wolves or coyotes,
and of sharing, unmolested, in their kills once the carnivores opened the carcasses.
Although this could be seen as just opportunistic feeding, the easy relationship between the
species seems to hint at something more substantial.
Inuit3 hunting traditions advise watching where ravens circle and dip their wings as a
sure tipoff to the location of game. Some speculate that ravens actually use their aerial
vantage points to guide larger, stronger predators to prey, which they then share. …}}

[[15 The introduction suggests that the appeal of the
raven is based on
(1) range of habitat
(2) tolerance of humans
(3) mannerisms and reputation
(4) size and appearance
16 Commas are used in line 5 to indicate a
(1) series (3) question
(2) definition (4) summary
17 According to lines 14 and 15, a raven’s “hackles”
help it to
(1) send messages (3) fly long distances
(2) attract a mate (4) locate prey
18 The author’s statements that “Raven pairs …
bond for life” (line 27) and “nesting areas can be
used for 100 years or more” (lines 38 and 39)
suggest that ravens have
(1) various environments (3) predictable habits
(2) fear of people (4) camouflage ability
19 According to the passage, a possible sign of
ravens’ intelligence is their ability to
(1) protect their young from predators
(2) lead other animals to prey
(3) migrate long distances
(4) imitate human voices
20 The passage as a whole reveals the author’s
attitude toward ravens to be one of
(1) indifference (3) distrust
(2) amusement (4) admiration]]
&&—Brian W. Swinn
excerpted from “Mystery on the Wing:
Life and Lore of the Common Raven”
New York State Conservationist, December 2005&&
##January 2015##
{{
Call walked the river for an hour, though he knew there was no real need. It was just an
old habit he had, left over from wilder times: checking, looking for [a] sign of one kind or
another, honing his instincts, as much as anything. In his years as a Ranger captain it had
been his habit to get off by himself for a time, every night, out of camp and away from
whatever talking and bickering were going on. He had discovered early on that his instincts
needed privacy in which to operate. Sitting around a fire being sociable, yawning and
yarning, might be fine in safe country, but it could cost you an edge in country that wasn’t
so safe. He liked to get off by himself, a mile or so from camp, and listen to the country, not
the men.
Of course, real scouting skills were superfluous in a place as tame as Lonesome Dove,
but Call still liked to get out at night, sniff the breeze and let the country talk. The country
talked quiet; one human voice could drown it out, particularly if it was a voice as loud as
Augustus McCrae’s. Augustus was notorious all over Texas for the strength of his voice. On
a still night he could be heard at least a mile, even if he was more or less
whispering. Call did his best to get out of range of Augustus’s voice so that he could relax
and pay attention to other sounds. If nothing else, he might get a clue as to what weather
was coming—not that there was much mystery about the weather around Lonesome Dove.
If a man looked straight up at the stars he was apt to get dizzy, the night was so clear. Clouds
were scarcer than cash money, and cash money was scarce enough.
There was really little in the way of a threat to be looked for, either. A coyote might
sneak in and snatch a chicken, but that was about the worst that was likely to happen. The
mere fact that he and Augustus were there had long since discouraged the local
horsethieves. …
He tried hard to keep sharp, but in fact the only action he had scared up in six months
of watching the river was one bandit, who might just have been a vaquero1 with a thirsty
horse. All Call had had to do in that instance was click the hammer of his Henry—in the
still night the click had been as effective as a shot. The man wheeled back into Mexico, and
since then nothing had disturbed the crossing except a few mangy goats on their way to the
salt lick. …
But somehow, despite the dangers, Call had never felt pressed in quite the way he had
lately, bound in by the small but constant needs of others. The physical work didn’t matter:
Call was not one to sit on a porch all day, playing cards or gossiping. He intended to work;
he had just grown tired of always providing the example. He was still the Captain, but no
one had seemed to notice that there was no troop and no war. He had been in charge so
long that everyone assumed all thoughts, questions, needs, and wants had to be referred to
him, however simple these might be. The men couldn’t stop expecting him to [c]aptain, and
he couldn’t stop thinking he had to. It was ingrained2 in him, he had done it so long, but he
was aware that it wasn’t appropriate anymore. They weren’t even peace
officers: they just ran a livery stable, trading horses and cattle when they could find a buyer.
The work they did was mostly work he could do in his sleep, and yet, though his day-to-day
responsibilities had constantly shrunk over the last ten years, life did not seem easier. It just
seemed smaller and a good deal more dull. …
}}
[[
9 As used in the passage, the word “honing” (line 3)
most nearly means
(1) forgetting (3) measuring
(2) ignoring (4) sharpening
10 According to the narrator, Call was in the habit of
going “off by himself” (line 8) because he
(1) missed his former military duties
(2) questioned the worth of storytelling
(3) wanted to avoid distractions
(4) irritated the men around him
11 The description of the country, “Of course ...
McCrae’s” (lines 10 through 13), is an example of
(1) personification (3) flashback
(2) alliteration (4) juxtaposition
12 According to the narrator, the weather around
“Lonesome Dove” (lines 16 and 17) could best be
described as
(1) helpful for crop growth
(2) fairly predictable over time
(3) harmful to financial success
(4) mostly cloudy during daytime
13 According to the passage, Call is disturbed by the
fact that he is viewed as a
(1) snob (3) leader
(2) farmer (4) thief
14 This passage is developed primarily through the
use of
(1) irony (3) foreshadowing
(2) characterization (4) hyperbole
]]
&&—Larry McMurtry
excerpted and adapted from Lonesome Dove, 1985
Simon and Schuster&&
##June 2015##

{{…We, the new explorers for the modern age, must rely to the fullest on the traditional
explorer’s greatest asset: the human intellect. Unlike any other species on Earth, human
beings have the ability to look back in time and to learn. We know the strengths of the great
ancient civilizations as well as the catastrophic mistakes that crumbled empires. It was the
traditional explorer who blazed a trail to this past. The new explorers—all of us—must use
that trail to find our way to the future, to chart our course, and our children’s course, into
the unknowns ahead.
The past age of the lone explorer, Boorstin1 wrote, opened at a time when medieval
cartographers did not place “North” at the top of their maps. At the upper margins of their
parchments they drew instead a mysterious spot they imagined in the east: paradise, which
no living human had ever entered. Monks, looking for this garden “where Earth joins the
sky,” became the first explorers; next, pilgrims wandered in search of the holy place; then
crusaders forged into new lands in the name of God; and finally, missionaries infiltrated
farther into Earth’s unknown corridors—all of them pushing back the boundaries of their
world in quest of paradise.
On one of my own voyages, I think I found it.
Calypso was exploring the waters of the Aleutian Islands, in Alaska. We sailed into an
unreal world—the sky, the ice, the water, all brushed by the indescribable light that makes
dusk indistinguishable from dawn during the season of the midnight sun. After I dropped
anchor off the island of Unalaska, our chief diver, Raymond Coll, climbed into our diving
saucer and took it down for a search under the surface of the sea. Raymond, who stayed in
contact with me by sonar telephone, described walruses and whales, vast pink fields of
krill—icy waters that brimmed with life.
Above, on board Calypso, the team was uncharacteristically preoccupied with another
endeavor altogether. NASA had just landed a module on the moon, and the entire Calypso
crew crowded onto the fantail to listen raptly to the radio, awaiting the announcement that
a human being, Neil Armstrong, was about to step onto the lunar surface.
Excitement electrified the atmosphere on board. We barely breathed. And then,
Armstrong’s voice. A cheer rose from the deck and echoed in the crystal air. I switched on
my sonar link with Coll. “Raymond! Historic news! Armstrong is walking on the moon!”
I felt a proud sense of fraternity that day with the NASA explorers who were reaching
into the distant corners of space even as our little team explored the depths of the sea. Yet
I also felt a sense of privilege that had to do not with the astronauts, but with the wet, blue
Earth on which they were gazing. Out in space, a human being stepped through dry lunar
dust. But Raymond sailed through a myriad2 of life, undersea on the solar system’s only
planet awash with liquid water.
Several years later, the astronaut Alan Bean spoke to me about his own space voyage.
From the moon, he watched Earth spin through cycles of night and day. When the dark side
of Earth faced him, our planet appeared to be encircled by a girdle of sparks. It took him
quite some time to realize that these tiny glimmers were flashes of lightning from the
quasi-permanent thunderstorms that ring the equator. He marveled: “The Earth looked like
a scintillating jewel.”
And that it is—the very reason why searching for ways to safeguard Earth is such a
necessity and such a joy. After all, the road to paradise—as the Spanish proverb goes—is
paradise.}}
[[
15 Lines 8 through 15 indicate that medieval
mapmakers believed that an explorer traveling
east should ultimately reach the
(1) northern regions of the Earth
(2) area of hostile creatures
(3) place of unmatched beauty
(4) land forbidden to strangers
16 The crew of the Calypso viewed Neil Armstrong’s
landing on the moon with
(1) jealousy (3) disbelief
(2) joy (4) calm
17 The author “felt a proud sense of fraternity” (line 31) with the “NASA explorers” (line 31) because
they both
(1) sacrificed their privacy
(2) shared detailed accounts
(3) received great praise
(4) braved unfamiliar territory
18 According to the author, a major purpose of
exploration today is to
(1) find habitable planets
(2) discover unpolluted water
(3) protect the Earth
(4) increase the food supply
19 The passage is primarily developed through the
use of
(1) statistics
(2) personal anecdotes
(3) rhetorical questions
(4) hypothesis
20 The tone of the passage can best be described as
(1) optimistic (3) hostile
(2) ironic (4) suspenseful]]
&&—Jacques Cousteau and Susan Schiefelbein
excerpted from The Human, The Orchid, and the Octopus, 2007
Bloomsbury&&
##June 2015##
{{I was given a voice. That’s what people said about me. I cultivated my voice, because it
would be a shame to waste such a gift. I pictured this voice as a hothouse plant, something
luxuriant, with glossy foliage and the word tuberous in the name, and a musky scent at night.
I made sure the voice was provided with the right temperature, the right degree of humidity,
the right ambience.1 I soothed its fears; I told it not to tremble. I nurtured it, I trained it, I
watched it climb up inside my neck like a vine.
The voice bloomed. People said I had grown into my voice. Soon I was sought after, or
rather my voice was. We went everywhere together. What people saw was me, what I saw
was my voice, ballooning out in front of me like the translucent greenish membrane of a
frog in full trill.
My voice was courted. Bouquets were thrown to it. Money was bestowed on it. Men fell
on their knees before it. Applause flew around it like flocks of red birds.
Invitations to perform cascaded over us. All the best places wanted us, and all at once,
for, as people said—though not to me—my voice would thrive only for a certain term. Then,
as voices do, it would begin to shrivel. Finally it would drop off, and I would be left alone,
denuded—a dead shrub, a footnote.
It’s begun to happen, the shrivelling. Only I have noticed it so far. There’s the barest
pucker in my voice, the barest wrinkle. Fear has entered me, a needleful of ether,2
constricting what in someone else would be my heart.
Now it’s evening; the neon lights come on, excitement quickens in the streets. We sit in
this hotel room, my voice and I; or rather in this hotel suite, because it’s still nothing but the
best for us. We’re gathering our strength together. How much of my life do I have left?
Leftover, that is: my voice has used up most of it. I’ve given it all my love, but it’s only a
voice, it can never love me in return.
Although it’s begun to decay, my voice is still as greedy as ever. Greedier: it wants more,
more and more, more of everything it’s had so far. It won’t let go of me easily.
Soon it will be time for us to go out. We’ll attend a luminous occasion, the two of us,
chained together as always. I’ll put on its favourite dress, its favourite necklace. I’ll wind a
fur around it, to protect it from the drafts. Then we’ll descend to the foyer, glittering like
ice, my voice attached like an invisible vampire to my throat.
}}
[[9 When the narrator states “I was given a voice”
(line 1), she is referring to
(1) an acting role
(2) a speaking engagement
(3) an editorial column
(4) a special talent
10 The narrator’s references to plants in the first
paragraph illustrate her past efforts to
(1) establish a life of simplicity
(2) develop her ability
(3) change her location
(4) defy expectations of others
11 The sentence “We went everywhere together”
(line 8) is ironic because the narrator views
(1) strength and fame as universal
(2) speaking and singing as different skills
(3) talent and person as separate entities
(4) personality and appearance as equal
12 Lines 13 through 16 reinforce the idea that the
narrator feels her voice has
(1) become her identity (3) kept her isolated
(2) made her immortal (4) destroyed her life
13 The statement “Then, as voices do, it would begin
to shrivel” (lines 14 and 15) introduces a
(1) source of inspiration
(2) change in focus
(3) humorous observation
(4) minor obstacle
14 A central theme in the passage involves the narrator’s
(1) love of creating music
(2) conflicts with her voice
(3) doubts about her training
(4) pride in performing shows]]
&&—Margaret Atwood
“Voice” from “Seven Love Letters”
The Walrus, July/August 2005&&
##August 2015##
{{Glenn Curtiss made his name as an aviator, but he started out his career as a record-
setting motorcyclist, reaching the mind-boggling and joint-rattling speed of 136 miles per
hour in 1907. Later that year he joined Alexander Graham Bell and three other members
of the Aerial Experiment Association to help create ailerons, hinged wing flaps that enable
airplanes to bank and turn. Curtiss went on to make America’s first exhibition flight, win the
first international air-speed prize at Reims, France, in 1909, and design the first practical
seaplane.
In World War I he made millions with seaplanes and the Curtiss Jenny, a sturdy,
affordable trainer that became the workhorse of barnstormers1 and airmail pilots after the
war. In 1917 he created the Curtiss Autoplane, an unsuccessful hybrid of airplane and car.
In the 1920s the “King of the Air” found that he hankered to get back to his lifelong
loves of hunting, fishing, and camping. At 40, he wanted more comfort for his road trips, so
he decided to build his own travel trailer and create a new business to do so.
The timing seemed right. The Roaring Twenties saw Detroit’s automobile industry
running full throttle; Americans flocked to the nation’s highways. With so few facilities on
the road, many long-distance drivers simply brought their own, sometimes by building
trailers for themselves. …
Curtiss also designed his Aerocar [travel trailer] to free passengers from the tyranny of
bad roads. In the words of his patent application, the occupants of normal vehicles “are
jolted and jostled about in a most objectionable manner; in fact, so much so that riding
becomes irksome, tiresome, and uncomfortable in the extreme.” That was not the case for
Aerocar passengers, who could lounge in fixed armchairs, enjoying close-set windows that
created 10-foot fields of vision on both sides, broken only by window posts. An occupant
could also stretch out on the rear-facing divan in the prow, under a built-in Philco radio.
A table snapped into place so that passengers might play cards or sit down to a meal
created in the galley,2 with its two-burner gasoline stove, icebox, and sink. The chemical
toilet had its own private compartment.
A privacy curtain turned the galley into a shower. (A drain in the linoleum took care of
the water.) Concealed Pullman-type bunks pulled down from the roof, while armchairs
folded down to make additional sleeping spaces. Snap-up privacy curtains and individual
reading lights added further amenities.
The Aerocar’s $2,600 price tag clearly placed it in the luxury market, which made it
difficult to sell during the Depression. Nevertheless, sales of Aerocars managed to weather
the hard times, even surviving Curtiss’s unexpected death in 1930 at age 52. …
In the Depression year of 1936, the New York Times estimated that 100,000 trailers of
all sorts were already on the road, while buyers were prepared to snap up another
300,000—more than six times what the country’s estimated 300 manufacturers expected to
produce in a year. “A new industry is rapidly coming to the front,” the paper said. “It is not
an uncommon sight these days to drive past a factory making trailers and find it operating
full blast in the middle of the night. Many plants are running twenty-four hours a day, seven
days a week.” At the National Automobile Show later that year, dealers displayed 50
different models, ranging in price from $275 to $12,000. …
}}
[[15 The first two paragraphs provide a list of Glenn
Curtiss’ accomplishments in order to
(1) highlight his cautiousness
(2) record his military service
(3) establish his aeronautical experience
(4) introduce his closest friends
16 Which phrase best reflects Glenn Curtiss’ decision
to make a travel trailer?
(1) “his career as a record-setting motorcyclist”
(lines 1 and 2)
(2) “the Curtiss Jenny, a sturdy, affordable trainer”
(lines 8 and 9)
(3) “an unsuccessful hybrid of airplane and car”
(line 10)
(4) “his lifelong loves of hunting, fishing, and
camping” (lines 11 and 12)
17 In lines 14 through 17, the author creates an
image of America as a nation that is
(1) cautious (3) inventive
(2) superior (4) conservative
18 As used in the passage, the word “amenities”
(line 31) most nearly means
(1) conveniences (3) expenses
(2) decorations (4) adjustments
19 According to the passage, why was the Aerocar
“difficult to sell during the Depression” (line 33)?
(1) It was an expensive purchase.
(2) It was hard to find a dealership.
(3) There were few licensed drivers.
(4) There were few qualified mechanics.
20 The use of the words “Nevertheless” (line 33) and
“even” (line 34) highlights a
(1) decision (3) contrast
(2) failure (4) mistake]]
&&—Kirk W. House
excerpted and adapted from “Modern Transportation”
American Heritage, Fall 2008&&
##August 2015##
{{
“Twenty-one piece tea set of blue lusterware … $2.98” was what it said alongside
the picture in the Sears, Roebuck Christmas catalogue. We were overwhelmed at such
value and set our sights on scaring up the three bucks and some odd cents that must be
figured in for tax and postage. It was the biggest gift we’d ever tackled for Mama; up to that
point we’d been satisfied with the cross-stitch on burlap or the file-card holders or the black
construction-paper silhouettes that Miss Zilch or Miss Drechsler or Mrs. Smith dreamed up
to motivate us between Thanksgiving and Christmas. …
With our sister Mary’s help we filled out the form and sent it off with a money order
procured from the mailman by putting a “Please blow horn” sign in the mailbox. This had
to be accomplished on Saturday, when Mama was gone to market. Then the vigil began.
Let’s see—two days for the order to get to Chicago, a couple of days to process it, three or
four days coming back, and a Sunday in between. At the most it ought to come in nine days.
Every day we got out the catalogue and turned it to the dog-eared page where our
treasure was pictured. “What do you think of that, Mama?” asked Bill, with thinly disguised
braggadocio.1 “Wouldn’t you just love to have something like that around here?” Our
tea set was as well kept a secret as a case of mumps.2
As good luck would have it, the package arrived two weeks to the day from when we
ordered. Saturday again, and Mama was at market, so we set the box on a chair and dived
in with all six fists. Not a very big box for twenty-one pieces! But all the same, big enough
to make quite some impression under the tree. …
First the cream pitcher, then the sugar bowl. “The lid? … Oh, here.” Then the wondrous
teapot—shimmering blue laced with a spray of pinkish-red blossoms. To our chagrin one of
the cups was a tissue-paper wad of broken pieces. Oh well, even a twenty-piece tea set was
not to be sneezed at. Maybe some adjustment could be made.
We counted them all, wrapping them again in the tissue and laboriously fitting them
back in the excelsior,3 hastening to banish all traces before Mom got home. We wrapped
the box in two or three pieces of last year’s Christmas paper, closing the stubborn flaps with
Christmas seals that came “free” in the mail. We adorned it royally with old ribbon untangled
from the wad, and then hid it away in Mary’s closet. …
I don’t really remember how she reacted. I’m sure it was a convincing show. It didn’t
occur to us (as I’m sure it did to her) to wonder where in our crowded cupboard she was
going to put twenty pieces of china “Made in Japan.”
We used the tea set from time to time and the pieces disappeared. The cream pitcher
went early in the game, then the six plates, the five cups, the saucers. The remnants moved
gradually upward in the cupboard.
When we went through Mama’s fifty-seven-year accumulation of “things,” way up in the
rear of the top shelf of the kitchen cupboard we unearthed the lid to a sugar bowl long gone
and the blue luster teapot. Its spout was held on precariously with Scotch tape; no tea had
poured from it for years. But too precious, obviously, to discard were the fragments of
a Christmas memory more cherished than the gift had ever been.
}}
[[9 The initial reaction of the children when they see
the price of the tea set is one of
(1) disgust (3) disinterest
(2) disbelief (4) distaste
10 The author uses the simile found in line 16 to
emphasize the children’s
(1) resentment (3) excitement
(2) imagination (4) frustration
11 The phrase “But all the same” (line 19) signals the
children’s
(1) sadness (3) objection
(2) surprise (4) acceptance
12 As used in line 22, the word “chagrin” most nearly
means
(1) confusion (3) distress
(2) pleasure (4) relief
13 The teapot discovered years later “in the rear of
the top shelf of the kitchen cupboard” (lines 36
and 37) is symbolic of Mama’s
(1) shame (3) carelessness
(2) appreciation (4) creativity
14 The passage can best be described as
(1) a memoir (3) a satire
(2) an allegory (4) an elegy]]
&&
—Patricia Penton Leimbach
excerpted from “Nostalgic Rose”
All My Meadows, 1977
Prentice-Hall, Inc.&&
##January 2016##
{{
If there is a universal in the Falkland Islands, it is the wind. Blowing in from the
Southern Ocean, born in distant Antarctica and pregnant with drizzle, it scythes across this
treeless, grassy archipelago more than 300 miles off the coast of Argentina. At times it blows
a furious gale against which one can barely walk; at other times it’s a brisk breeze that merely
rips the cap from your head. In just a couple of days I’d already grown accustomed to its
endless keen and sharp edge, but what stopped me short this time was something new and
baffling—the way the wind seemed to make the ground itself shimmer, like rippling water.
Looking closer, I realized the ripples were trillions of tiny feathers blanketing the
ground in an even white layer and piled up in ankle-deep drifts wherever there was a gully
or depression. Taking a few more steps I topped a small rise—and discovered the answer to
the mystery.
Thousands of gentoo penguins—three feet tall, attired in classic penguin monochrome1
but with white caps—stood around a small and shrinking pond, digging their orange beaks
deep into the molting feathers of their backs and sides. The wind picked up fresh squalls of
down, blowing them across the dunes and toward a nearby beach, where hundreds more
penguins hurried back and forth between the colony and the ocean surf, waddling along on
thick, tangerine feet. …
Having disregarded me to this point, the gentoos suddenly decided I was the most
interesting thing in the colony. Immediately scores of them started plodding my way, necks
outstretched with lively curiosity, tripping over one another in their haste. They jammed
around within a foot or so of me, bobbing their heads and making small, murmuring sounds;
I was lying so low that I found myself looking up at them. A few pecked inquisitively at my
rain pants, while one leaned down and peered into the barrel of my telephoto lens, staring,
it seemed, at its reflection. They constantly shook their heads with quick, sharp snaps to
dislodge the droplets of highly saline water that drip endlessly from the tips of their bills.
This is how penguins void excess salt from the water they drink. But it gave me the
disquieting sense of general disapproval from a crowd too polite to actually say so.
I was on Sea Lion Island, the most southerly of the more than 700 islands that make up
the Falklands—a world a naturalist could spend a lifetime exploring, from craggy inland
peaks and flower-spangled marshes to isolated rocky outcrops surrounded by lush kelp forests
teeming with fur seals and porpoises. For a week I would hopscotch among the outer
islands on the government air-taxi service (the only way to reach most of the archipelago),
visiting some of the places that have made the Falklands a grail2 destination of mine for
decades: huge colonies where five species of penguins can be found; wetlands crowded with
waterfowl few birders have even heard of; remote bays where strange raptors try to steal the
hat off your head; and nature reserves where elephant seals and sea lions treat you like just
another member of the herd.
All of which was marvelous, but—typical of the way that the Falklands defy all
expectations—the most unforgettable moments came unexpectedly at the very end, not on
some far-flung shore but on a small islet just a short boat ride from Stanley, the capital.
There we stepped back into an older, wilder world—like Eden before the fall, where the
maniacal laughter of thousands of birds fills the dark, and where roaring sea lions lie
hidden within a jungle of grasses. The Falklands, I was quickly learning, are truly one of
the most remarkable places on earth. …}}
[[15 The purpose of the first paragraph is to
(1) present statistical data
(2) describe an environment
(3) introduce a scientific theory
(4) support a popular belief
16 The gentoos’ behavior toward the photographer
indicates they are
(1) hostile towards intruders
(2) afraid of strangers
(3) protective of territory
(4) eager for interaction
17 As used in line 27, the word “disquieting” most
nearly means
(1) enthusiastic (3) uncomfortable
(2) satisfying (4) indifferent
18 The author describes the Falkland Islands as “a
world a naturalist could spend a lifetime exploring”
(line 29) because of the
(1) exceptional wildlife
(2) challenging terrain
(3) seasonal weather changes
(4) abundant food supply
19 The author finds the Falkland Islands “remarkable”
(line 44) because they are
(1) unique (3) civilized
(2) profitable (4) barren
20 The text is developed primarily through the use of
(1) imagery (3) flashback
(2) irony (4) allusion]]
&&—Scott Weidensaul
excerpted from “Land Before Time”
Audubon, May-June 2013
&&
##January 2016##
{{…In summer the highways are dissolved into three wild rivers—the River of Rocks,
which issues from the hills; the River of Meadows, which flows from the great lake; and the
River of the Way Out, which runs down from their meeting-place to the settlements and
the little world. But in winter, when the ice is firm under the snow, and the going is fine,
there are no tracks upon the three broad roads except the paths of the caribou, and the
footprints of the marten and the mink and the fox, and the narrow trails made by Luke
Dubois on his way to and from his cabin by the rivers.
He leaned in the door-way, looking out. Behind him in the shadow, the fire was still
snapping in the little stove where he had cooked his breakfast. There was a comforting smell
of bacon and venison in the room; the tea-pot stood on the table half-empty. Here in the
corner were his rifle and some of his traps. On the wall hung his snowshoes. Under the bunk
was a pile of skins. Half-open on the bench lay the book that he had been reading the
evening before, while the snow was falling. It was a book of veritable1 fairy-tales, which told
how men had made their way in the world, and achieved great fortunes, and won success,
by toiling hard at first, and then by trading and bargaining and getting ahead of other men.
“Well,” said Luke, to himself, as he stood at the door, “I could do that too. Without
doubt I also am one of the men who can do things. They did not work any harder than I do.
But they got better pay. I am twenty-five. For ten years I have worked hard, and what have
I got for it? This!”
He stepped out into the morning, alert and vigorous, deep-chested and straight-hipped.
The strength of the hills had gone into him, and his eyes were bright with health. His
kingdom was spread before him. There along the River of Meadows were the haunts2 of the
moose and the caribou where he hunted in the fall; and yonder on the burnt hills around
the great lake were the places where he watched for the bears; and up beside the River of
Rocks ran his line of traps, swinging back by secret ways to many a nameless pond and
hidden beaver-meadow; and all along the streams, when the ice went out in the spring, the
great trout would be leaping in rapid and pool. Among the peaks and valleys of that
forest-clad kingdom he could find his way as easily as a merchant walks from his house to
his office. The secrets of bird and beast were known to him; every season of the year
brought him its own tribute;3 the woods were his domain, vast, inexhaustible, free. …
His hand-sledge4 stood beside the door, and against it leaned the axe. He caught it up
and began to split wood for the stove. “No!” he cried, throwing down the axe, “I’m tired of
this. It has lasted long enough. I’m going out to make my way in the world.”
A couple of hours later, the sledge was packed with camp-gear and bundles of skins. The
door of the cabin was shut; a ghostlike wreath of blue smoke curled from the chimney. Luke
stood, in his snowshoes, on the white surface of the River of the Way Out. He turned to look
back for a moment, and waved his hand.
“Good-bye, old cabin! Good-bye, the rivers! Good-bye, the woods!”
}}
[[9 The first paragraph contributes to the passage by
illustrating Luke’s
(1) poverty (3) isolation
(2) sadness (4) desperation
10 According to lines 8 through 15, Luke’s living
quarters may best be described as
(1) disorganized (3) insufficient
(2) elegant (4) comfortable
11 The “book of veritable fairy-tales” (line 13)
contributes to Luke’s realization that he
(1) feels lonely and needs companionship
(2) should remain living in the wilderness
(3) deserves more reward for his efforts
(4) understands nature better than most people
12 By using the phrase “throwing down the axe”
(line 32), the author is conveying Luke’s
(1) nervousness (3) indifference
(2) determination (4) satisfaction
13 The main reason why Luke leaves his current
location is to
(1) purchase more supplies
(2) further his education
(3) meet new people
(4) pursue financial success
14 Lines 16 through 38 suggest that Luke’s
(1) work contributes to his happiness
(2) solitude holds him back
(3) hobbies help him to socialize
(4) skills limit his opportunities]]
&&—Henry Van Dyke
excerpted from “Wood-Magic”
The Blue Flower, 1902
Charles Scribner’s Sons&&
##June 2016##
{{On the roof of a speeding freight train, a slender woman in a white feather cap and long
narrow skirt sits crumpled, cradling her head. Her day’s work is done. A minute ago, she
leaped onto this train from a towering overpass, pointing out two stowaway thieves to the
engineers on duty. As they race to nab the bandits, she doubles over to catch her breath.
The men, she knows, can take it from here.
Suddenly, one of the thieves appears on the roof. Fresh from a fistfight with the
conductors, the thug tries to rush past her. She scrambles to her feet and lunges at his waist.
They wrestle. He tries to shake her. She tackles him, and in an instant, the two are pitched
over the side into the river below. As they wade from the water, the wet hat still clinging to
her head, she sacks him again, delivering a taste of justice. …
Helen Holmes, the scrappy 20-year-old featured in The Hazards of Helen, wasn’t the
most famous or the most glamorous. But with the women’s suffrage movement reaching a
fever pitch, her no-nonsense handling of everyday affairs in a man’s world turned her into
a fan favorite. What made her truly revolutionary—even as she faded into obscurity with the
rest of the silent film stars—was what she did behind the scenes.
A Chicago-raised tomboy-turned-model, Holmes was more than just the star of
The Hazards of Helen—she was, in large part, its creator. Holmes landed her first film roles
in silent comedies in 1912. Shortly after, she joined forces, personally and professionally,
with J.P. “Jack” McGowan, an Australian director who specialized in short action films. He
directed her in more than 20 flicks—most of them one- or two-reel railroad dramas. …
“If a photoplay actress wants to achieve real thrills, she must write them into the
scenario herself,” she once said. “[N]early all scenario writers and authors for the films are
men, and men usually won’t provide for a girl things they wouldn’t do themselves. So if I
want really thrilly action, I ask permission to write it myself.”
Each weekly installment found Helen facing fresh danger—from thieves to runaway
trains. In The Wild Engine (1915) Helen got a job at a railroad, only to have the
superintendent of the company berate the underling who hired her. “Women cannot use
their heads in case of emergency, and if you employ her, I shall hold you entirely responsible!”
Suffice to say, an emergency soon tests his theory. When an engine goes haywire and sets
on a collision course with a passenger train, Helen jumps on a motorcycle and zooms off to
stop it. She keeps the trains from colliding, of course, but she also rides the motorcycle off
a bridge and into a river to enhance the action. The film ends with the superintendent
changing his stance on Helen’s hiring—a simplistic story, simplistically told, but one that
presents a radical message by 1915 standards.
In the pre-Hollywood days of early cinema, moviemaking was defined by a
rough-and-tumble DIY [Do It Yourself] aesthetic. Unlike many of her colleagues, Holmes
performed many death-defying stunts herself, from swinging onto moving locomotives to
crawling across the hoods of speeding cars. She moved with the grace of an athlete. Asked
about her stunt work, she remarked that she sought to perform stunts without losing “that
air of femininity of which we are all so proud. But by that I do not mean the frail side of
woman. I mean the heroic side.” …}}
[[15 The author catches the attention of the reader
through the use of
(1) a peaceful description
(2) an upsetting event
(3) a personal anecdote
(4) an unusual scenario
16 The opening paragraphs show Helen, the movie
character, to be
(1) ruthless (3) witty
(2) fearless (4) ungrateful
17 According to lines 11 through 14, Helen Holmes
achieved popularity because she was
(1) successful in a male-dominated society
(2) vulnerable in a dangerous setting
(3) modest in a competitive system
(4) uncomfortable in an unfamiliar environment
18 Helen Holmes believed she had to create her own
action scenes because otherwise they would be
(1) very dangerous (3) less exciting
(2) too romantic (4) slightly offensive
19 As used in line 27, the word “berate” most nearly
means
(1) reject (3) favor
(2) praise (4) scold
20 The words of the company superintendent (lines
27 and 28) are important because they
(1) represent a prejudiced view of women
(2) answer a popular question about women
(3) signal the end of the silent film era
(4) express sympathy for artistic freedom]]
&&—Jake Hinkson
excerpted and adapted from “The Girl at the Switch”
mental_floss, Winter 2013&&
##June 2016##