{{It was late in December, the last busy days of the year. But the seven or eight boys
on the windy beach were as lighthearted and free as ever. The eldest was twelve, the
youngest nine. They were gathered beneath a dune in lively discussion. Some were
standing. Others sat. One rested his chin in his hands, elbows dug deep in the sand. As they
talked, the sun went down in the west.
Their talking now over, the boys galloped off along the water’s edge. From inlet to inlet
each ran as he pleased. The group was quickly dispersed. One by one they retrieved what
the storm had brought two nights before and the ebb tide had left behind: rotted boards, a
chipped bowl, bamboo slivers, chunks of wood, an old ladle with the handle torn off. The
boys heaped them up on a dry patch of sand away from the lapping waves. All that they
gathered was soaking wet. …
The spoils of their hunt they had gathered for burning. With the red flames, wild joy
would be theirs. Running and leaping across, they would prove their courage. And now
from the dunes they gathered dry grass. The eldest stepped forward and touched it with
fire. They stood in a circle and waited to hear the crack of bamboo split by the flames. But
only the grass burned. It caught and died, caught and died. A few puffs of smoke floated
up, nothing more. The wood, the bamboo were untouched. The mirror frame only was
charred here and there. With a weird hiss, steam shot out from the end of the pole. One
after another the boys dropped to the sand and blew at the pile as hard as they could. But
instead of flames, smoke arose, stinging their eyes. Their cheeks were stained with tears. …
Look, look, one boy shouted, the Izu hill fires! If their fires burn, then why shouldn’t
ours? All leaped to their feet, looking out towards the water. Far across the great Bay of
Sagami two fires flickered and trembled, so feeble they might be just will-o’-the-wisps. Now
that harvest is over, the farmers of Izu must be burning the chaff of their fields in the hills.
Surely these are the fires that bring tears to the eyes of winter travellers. Their distant
beams tell only of the long, dark road ahead.
The boys danced wildly and clapped and sang, The hills are burning, the hills are
burning. Their innocent voices rang through the dusk, down the long, lonely beach. The
whispering of the waves blended with their voices. The waves rushed in from the southern
tip of the inlet in foaming white lines. The tide was beginning to rise. …
Still vexed by their failure, the eldest boy looked back at the pile as he ran. One more
time he looked back from the top of the dune before running down the far side. It has
caught, he shouted, Our fire has caught, when he saw the flames on the beach. The others,
amazed, climbed back to the top. They stood in a row and looked down.
It was true. The stubborn bits of wood, fanned by the wind, had caught fire. Smoke
billowed up and red tongues of flame shot out, disappeared and shot out again. The sharp
crack of bamboo joints splitting in the fire, the shower of sparks with each report.1 Indeed,
the fire had caught. But the boys stood their ground, clapped and shouted with joy, then
turned and raced down the hill for home.
Now the ocean was dark and from the beach, too, the sun was gone. All that was left
was the winter night’s loneliness. And on the desolate beach the fire burned, alone,
untended. …
}}
[[
9 The word “But” (line 1) emphasizes the contrast
between
(1) season and activity (3) calmness and anger
(2) age and experience (4) bravery and fear
10 The actions of the boys in lines 6 and 7 suggest a
mood of
(1) fear (3) sadness
(2) excitement (4) peacefulness
11 In line 12, “The spoils of their hunt” refers to
(1) large clams (3) horseshoe crabs
(2) colorful rocks (4) beach debris
12 The repetition used in line 16 emphasizes the
(1) sand’s power (3) boys’ hopes
(2) wind’s speed (4) ocean’s beauty
13 In line 31, “vexed” most nearly means
(1) scared (3) embarrassed
(2) threatened (4) frustrated
14 The purpose of lines 40 through 42 is to
(1) personify the Sun
(2) describe the setting
(3) characterize the narrator
(4) demonstrate the action
]]
&&— Kunikida Doppo
excerpted from “The Bonfire”
Monumenta Nipponica: Studies in Japanese Culture, 1970
The Voyagers’ Press&&
##January 2011##
{{
Handcycling was developed in the 1980s by people working to create alternate types of
human-powered vehicles. So it was almost by accident that a new world of cycling was
opened to people with disabilities. …
“The disabled community picked up on it right away,” said Ian Lawless, Colorado
regional director and cycling director for Adaptive Adventures. Even people with one
working arm can handcycle with some modifications made to the equipment, said Lawless.
“Just about anyone can do it. It’s an accessible sport. It’s not just for racing; it’s also for
recreational riding. It’s a barrier breaker that allows a disabled rider to participate in cycling
with friends and families who may be riding conventional bicycles.”
In the 25 years since its development, handcycling has continued to grow in popularity.
It’s been part of the IPC [International Paralympic Committee] cycling program since 1998,
and the 2004 Paralympics included handcycling racing for the first time. Today, thousands
of people, able-bodied and those with disabilities, have turned to handcycling as a means to
improve their cardiovascular health, increase upper-body strength, compete, and ride with
friends and family. …
An upright handcycle is an entry-level bike for those who are new to the sport, who just
want exercise or recreation, or who don’t want to ride very long distances or go very fast.
Because of their higher center of gravity, upright handcycles aren’t suitable for speeds
higher than 15 mph. The internal gear systems, borrowed from the cycling industry,
usually come in a choice of three or seven speeds, which naturally limits the speed to less
than 15 mph. They are easy to transfer in and out of from a wheelchair, and have a natural,
fork-type steering system.
Recumbent1 handcycles come in a few different variations. There are two steering
options: fork-steer and lean-to-steer, and two seating options: one where the rider reclines
and the other, a “trunk-power” version, where the rider leans forward. They usually come
with 27-gear drivetrains,2 although they can be purchased with three- or seven-gear
drivetrains.
The trunk-power handcycle doesn’t have much of a seatback. The cranks are low to the
ground and far away from the rider. With this arrangement, riders are able to put the weight
of their trunks behind each stroke, allowing them to go faster for longer. The limitation to
this type of handcycle, Lawless said, is that the athlete must have control of most or all of
his abdominal muscles, so it may not be suitable for all athletes.
With the other seating option, the rider sits in a seat with a reclined back. The cranks
are higher and closer, allowing the rider to use the seatback for leverage to rotate the
cranks. …
The lean-to-steer version has a two-piece frame where the top frame swivels over the
bottom frame. The front wheel turns along with the seat. The rider initiates the turn by
leaning his whole body. There is a bit of a learning curve with this type, but many riders
prefer this type because they have a feel similar to monoskiing.3 They’re used primarily, but
not exclusively, by people with lower-level disabilities. Lawless said there’s no advantage of
one type of steering over the other. It’s primarily a matter of the athlete’s preference. …
}}
[[
15 The passage includes the quotation about the
handcycle being a “barrier breaker” (line 8) in
order to stress its
(1) durability (3) portability
(2) affordability (4) accessibility
16 The inclusion of handcycling in the 2004
Paralympics demonstrates its
(1) profitability
(2) popularity
(3) dependability
(4) intensity
17 According to the passage, many people have
turned to handcycling in order to
(1) improve their health
(2) lower transportation costs
(3) reduce stress
(4) minimize pollution
18 As used in the passage, the phrase “learning
curve” (line 38) refers to the
(1) difficulty of learning a skill
(2) responsibility of individual riders
(3) braking mechanism
(4) safety features
19 According to the passage, the type of handcycle
one should purchase might depend upon
(1) unit cost (3) individual weight
(2) structural defects (4) physical needs
20 In discussing the advantages and disadvantages of
various handcycle designs, the author uses which
strategy?
(1) personal anecdote
(2) cause and effect
(3) comparison and contrast
(4) chronological order
]]
&&— Disabled Sports USA
excerpted from “Handcycling 101”
Challenge Magazine, Spring 2005
http://www.dsusa.org&&
##January 2011##
{{
We are packing up the house. The air is pulpy with the smells of cardboard and
newsprint, and every room is lined with boxes, flaps fanned open at the top. We pack and
pack—eighty boxes already, and so far, with two weeks still to go, we haven’t missed a thing.
What do we keep it all for? Books and more books; unused wedding presents and
mismatched wine glasses; worn-out stuffed animals and outgrown toys; sheaves of letters;
boxes of loose photographs; a landfill of sweaters, shoes, and clothes: the weighty
apparatus of four lives. It will take more than two hundred book boxes, dish barrels, mirror
boxes, mattress crates, a football field of paper, bubble wrap, and tape to contain it all. We
want to contain it. We want to hold it tight. …
There’s no place like home, Dorothy chants, clicking her ruby heels as she recites her
dream-dissolving spell. I’ve moved half a dozen times since I first left my parents’ house for
college, twenty-five years ago this fall, and sometimes I wonder if there is any place I’ll ever
really feel at home. I feel loose-footed on this spinning planet, as displaced as those
mountains vanished in the fog. Of course, you don’t have to move physically to leave
yourself behind. Something is lost with every tick of the second hand on the clock. …
My parents still live in the house in which I grew up, and my childhood room remains
almost exactly the way I left it when I last lived there at eighteen. It’s a shrine to my
long-vanished child-self, a garden gone to seed, a tangle of dusty paperbacks, knickknacks,
and disheveled dolls. My mother refuses to throw anything away, although lately she’s been
urging me to come and weed things out myself.
“I don’t want to leave you with a mess to clean up when I die,” she says. Now that we’re
moving, she says, it’s time.
Back in Boston for a visit, I shake open a large black trash bag and sit down on the floor
of my old room. From a built-in cabinet, I exhume a postcard of Baryshnikov in midleap, a
silver-plated pendant in the shape of a Hershey’s Kiss, faded mimeographs of high school
class songs and summer reading lists, stacks of letters, a flowered fabric-covered scrapbook
(blank). I remember each of these objects perfectly, though I haven’t thought of them in
years. I take a breath, open the trash bag, and stuff them in.
My mother comes in and perches on the edge of the bed. “You don’t need to throw
everything away, you know,” she says, reaching for a postcard with a cartoon of a girl with
googly eyes on the front and my long-dead paternal grandmother’s spidery handwriting on
the back. My most beloved darling. It’s dated August 1970. I would have been seven then,
the same age as my daughter now. Will we be sitting together like this, looking at postcards
from my own mother, when my daughter is forty-three?
My mother says, “You know, you only need to get rid of those things you don’t want to
keep.”
What don’t I want? I fish the pendant out of the trash bag, fingering the Kiss’s paper
pull-tab, which reads “I Love You,” and which, amazingly, is still in tact. I give it to my
daughter, along with the scrapbook and a doll with floozy blond hair and tattered clothes, 
and pack them all into yet another box to be shipped to our new Ohio home. I retrieve the
letters, the postcards, the mimeographs; I open the cabinet and put them back.
To my surprise my mother is satisfied with this. In fact she seems relieved. “Everything
will be here for you whenever you want it,” she says. …
}}
[[
9 In stating “We want to contain it” (lines 8 and 9),
the narrator suggests that she wishes to
(1) cling to the past
(2) bury old feuds
(3) erase unpleasant memories
(4) limit her inner fears
10 The simile “displaced as those mountains
vanished in the fog” (lines 13 and 14) suggests
that the narrator feels
(1) fortunate (3) unsettled
(2) encouraged (4) fearful
11 The narrator’s description of her childhood room
(lines 16 through 19) was foreshadowed by which
phrase?
(1) “The air is pulpy” (line 1)
(2) “What do we keep it all for?” (line 4)
(3) “unused wedding presents” (line 4)
(4) “I feel loose-footed” (line 13)
12 By urging the narrator to “weed things out”
(line 20), her mother is expressing her
(1) thoughts about the future
(2) concerns with personal safety
(3) anxiety to redecorate the room
(4) nervousness about neighbors’ opinions
13 The narrator’s passing on the pendant, scrapbook,
and doll to her daughter can be seen as
(1) selfish (3) educational
(2) insulting (4) revealing
14 The conclusion of the passage suggests that the
narrator and her mother
(1) share common values
(2) reach an emotional crisis
(3) compete for the child’s affection
(4) begin to drift apart
]]
&&Margot Singer
excerpted from “Afterimage”
River Teeth, Spring 2008&&
##June 2011##
{{
…Inspired by another successful eradication [of malaria] in Sardinia, in 1955 the World
Health Organization (WHO) inaugurated what was then the most ambitious campaign
against disease in history, the Global Malaria Eradication Programme. The program
included spraying home interiors with insecticides and distributing antimalarial drugs to
people in affected regions. But WHO’s efforts yielded only partial success. The disease did
disappear in Europe, Russia, Australia and most of the Caribbean. South Asia initially saw
dramatic reductions of infections, but the disease soon bounced back. Other hotspots fared
even worse.
What went wrong? In a word, everything. The parasites fought back, becoming
resistant to common medications. The mosquitoes grew stronger too, as more and more of
them were able to survive insecticides. In some climates, mosquitoes bred so quickly that
insecticide applications simply couldn’t keep up. All the while, local tribes were waging wars
of their own, which bogged down already-inadequate health infrastructures1 and made public
health interventions difficult and dangerous. In 1969, WHO shut down its program.
National malaria-control programs followed, but they later fell into neglect or were
abandoned entirely. …
Spraying insecticides isn’t the only way to use them. Mosquito-repellent bed nets2
treated with a class of insecticides called pyrethroids, which bind more easily to nets than
DDT,3 cost just $1 to $2 apiece in Africa. And nets give some major bang for their buck: A
study published last year found that a 10-fold increase in nets resulted in 44 percent fewer
deaths among Kenyan children in the studied areas. In September of 2006, Kenya’s
government used a $17-million Global Fund grant to provide 3.4 million
insecticide-treated nets to children. Zambia followed its lead. In 2006, 23 percent of
Zambian children slept under treated nets, up from 1 percent in 2000. …
In the face of widespread drug resistance, scientists have turned to a flowering shrub
called wormwood (Artemisia annua), the active ingredient of which, artemisinin, has potent
anti-fever properties. Since 2004, when WHO began promoting the use of artemisinin
worldwide, the drug has proved to be extremely fast-acting and effective against
P. falciparum.
4 WHO now recommends it or its derivatives as the first line of defense
against the parasite in areas where chloroquine5 no longer works, such as much of
sub-Saharan Africa. Artemisinin is now one of the most powerful tools against malaria. …
Fortunately, powerful synthetic versions of the drug are on the horizon. Since 2000,
pharmaceutical scientists at the University of Nebraska Medical Center have been working
on an entirely synthetic antimalarial designed to mimic artemisinin. In preclinical lab tests,
the drug, called OZ277, was found to be even more effective than artemisinin derivatives.
The medication is currently in the last stage of clinical trials and, although a price for the
drug has not been determined, it will probably be less expensive than artemisinin. …
Complete eradication of malaria on the scale of polio will never be achieved without a
vaccine. Creating that magic bullet, however, has been a tremendous challenge. Obstacles
include the complexity of the parasites and their ability to quickly change and adapt. We
also don’t completely understand our bodies’ immune response to them. But a vaccine is
finally on the horizon. Over the past 25 years, the pharmaceutical company
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals has spent $300 million developing a malaria vaccine against
P. falciparum. RTS,S, as it’s called, helps the immune system fight off the parasites by 
blocking their ability to reproduce and develop in the liver, where they first arrive and
multiply. With grants from the Gates Foundation and other groups, the company recently
tested RTS,S on humans. Last October [2007], the vaccine was shown to reduce the risk of
malarial infection by 65 percent among infants in Mozambique—a huge victory. …
}}
[[
15 According to the first paragraph, the malaria
threat has returned to
(1) Europe (3) the Caribbean
(2) Australia (4) South Asia
16 The purpose of “What went wrong? In a word,
everything” (line 9) is to
(1) characterize the World Health Organization
(2) convey the seriousness of the problem
(3) show measures being taken to end malaria
(4) describe the symptoms of the disease
17 The passage states that the only sure solution to
the malaria problem will be to
(1) redesign living spaces
(2) increase insecticide use
(3) improve farming methods
(4) develop an effective vaccine
18 The purpose of the dash in line 48 is to signal
(1) an unanswered question
(2) a conflict between researchers
(3) an important result
(4) a change in perspective
19 The tone at the end of the passage can best be
described as
(1) hopeful (3) humorous
(2) angry (4) frustrated
20 The ideas in the passage are supported primarily
through the use of
(1) claim and counterclaim
(2) rhetorical questions
(3) facts and statistics
(4) personal narrative
]]
&&excerpted from “How to End Malaria”
Science Illustrated, July/August 2008&&
##June 2011##
{{
To see me backpacking, you’d never know I’m the same woman whose blood pressure
rises at the sight of crumbs on her kitchen counter. It’s hard to imagine I rage against the
dust bunnies and grit on my hardwood floor, when here in Yosemite’s backcountry I sleep
on dirt, stir it into my oatmeal and shake it from my boots. My hair, skin and clothes
thicken with grime each day. Filthy and blistered, I am happier than I have felt in years.
Perhaps it is the constant exertion that makes me so patient, content. After hauling a
pack stuffed with six days of food and gear up mountain passes, down steep ravines, and
across meadows, I find myself at sunset, hungry and worn to bliss. It’s far from the exhaustion I feel after a grueling day teaching, paying bills, and cooking. No, this is purely
physical. My body aches for sleep, but my mind is as clear as the dusk light on Vogelsang
Lake. In this new place, I feel I’ve come home.
At the first light of dawn, I awake to scurry up rocks to watch the sunrise spread soft
pinks, then fiery yellow across the slate sky. In the meadow below me, two deer perk up
their heads to scrutinize a sound on the wind. They begin running and I scan the fields
expecting to see a bear, wolf, or other reason for their flight. Seeing no animal, I wonder if
they’re just running to run, something I rarely do. At home, I’m so busy trying to keep up
with my own expectations I’m always running towards something or from something. Here
in Yosemite, there is no such pull. Clutched in the palm of these granite cathedrals, I’m in
awe, a lithe1 lupine2 warming to the sun.
Perhaps this is why dirt in the wilderness never bothers me. I don’t need to control it or
mop it away. It’s not my dirt or my husband’s dirt to clean, but the soil for ponderosas,
sequoias and tufts of mountain grass. It belongs here—crunching beneath my boots, lining
valleys between glacial peaks. Yosemite’s dirt doesn’t hover behind windows or wait in
painted corners to be swept into a plastic bag. It is the ground beneath me.
I pick up a handful of pine needle-saturated soil and imagine hurling it across my living
room rug. How much dirt would it take to make my house a home? Could I carry this same
mountain peace back to my rectangular plot of driveway and lawn cut into a grid of streets?
Sifting soil through my fingers, I’m suddenly confused by the shiny black and white
linoleum we installed in our kitchen floor. How did I get so far from this place?
I’ve spent too many years identifying comfort with the mattress on my bed and the
water pressure in my shower. Comfort is also this moment sitting with my butt numb from
cold granite, my legs sunburned and caked in dust, my feet blistered and sweating in wool
socks. I wonder how I can remember this luxury when I return home to my terry cloth
robe? Is sanity ever possible within four walls, or will I always hover like dust in window
sunbeams, restless to be outside again?
}}
[[
9 The phrase “worn to bliss” (line 8) indicates that
at the end of the hike the narrator feels
(1) confused and angry
(2) sad but hopeful
(3) cold and hungry
(4) tired but satisfied
10 The narrator’s comments about her own expectations in lines 16 and 17 illustrate that she
(1) performs dangerous tasks
(2) feels pressured
(3) dislikes her job
(4) craves attention
11 The wilderness setting in the third paragraph is
developed primarily through the use of
(1) imagery (3) characterization
(2) symbolism (4) personification
12 The narrator indicates that the dirt in Yosemite
does not frustrate her because
(1) she cleans up her trash
(2) no one else is bothered
(3) it naturally occurs there
(4) it looks unusual
13 Throughout the passage, the narrator implies
that she
(1) is afraid of wildlife
(2) admires neatly mowed lawns
(3) wants to sell her home
(4) feels content in the wilderness
14 The main purpose of this passage is to
(1) narrate a personal journey
(2) persuade readers to camp
(3) describe the value of exercise
(4) explain feelings of insecurity
]]
&&—Tonya Ward Singer
“Dirt”
In the Mist Magazine, Issue 1.1
www.inthemistmag.com&&
##August 2011##
{{
Sure, you know their names, possibly better than you know the name of the street you
live on—almost every writer does. When the need comes, these names drip lightly and
quickly off our tongues like they were our own brothers. I am thinking about the famed
eponymous1 duo Webster’s Dictionary and Roget’s Thesaurus.
But I dare say, almost none of us can identify the actual person or conjure up anything
about him. Don’t report me, but neither did I until I started to write this column.
Webster’s Dictionary. Many people can respond immediately: Noah Webster. We are
aware that he is the father of the dictionary. But who was he? What did he do for a living?
When did he live?
Noah was born in 1758, graduated from Yale University in 1778, and subsequently
graduated from law school. He produced the first American dictionary in 1806 and
published his sentinel work An American Dictionary of the English Language in 1828. His
interests led him to be a lexicographer,2 textbook editor, author, Bible translator and spelling
reformer. He campaigned for years to secure nationwide copyright privileges for authors,
and he succeeded in 1790. His ubiquitous3 mind produced extensive writings in epidemic
diseases, mythology, meteors, and the relationship of European and Asian languages. In
addition, he founded the first New York daily newspaper. He died in 1843.
Another dictionary eponym almost as well-known is Merriam-Webster Dictionary. So
we have to ask, “Where did Merriam come from? What relationship does Merriam have to
Webster?”
George and Charles Merriam purchased the right to revise Webster’s dictionary after
his death in 1843. They produced several revised and expanded editions, and the
“Collegiate” series was begun in 1898. The C. and G. Merriam Company eventually lost its
exclusive right to the Webster name and in 1983, the company name changed to MerriamWebster, Inc. with the publication of Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary. The
C. and G. Merriam Company has been owned by Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. since 1964.
That brings us to…
Roget’s Thesaurus. And it gives us the chance to learn about Roget, the man—
Peter Mark Roget. Who? What? When?
Englishman Peter Roget, MD, was born in 1779. He studied medicine and mathematics at the University of Edinburgh, entering at age 14 and graduating at age 19. He is
acclaimed as the creator of the first-ever thesaurus, a compilation of words and phrases
according to meaning rather than alphabetic order. It has been called one of the 3 most
important books ever printed, along with the Bible and Webster’s dictionary.
He began his monumental work Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases in 1805 but
did not release it publicly until 1852 — 47 years later. Meanwhile, he was earning a deserved
reputation as a distinguished physician and anatomist.
In his lifetime, he became a noted lecturer and writer on anatomy, sewer sanitation,
magnetism, bees, geology, and more. He wrote a landmark paper, “Persistence of Vision
with Regard to Moving Objects,” which stirred much research and dispute in the scientific
and optics community.
When Roget died in 1869 at age 90, his son, John, took over the Thesaurus and he
gradually expanded it.
[Physician and writer—what an interesting combination!]
So now you know these men—the “-nyms”4 in the eponyms. Not enough information?
As James Thurber suggested in the title of his 1941 book about baseball, You Could Look
It Up!
}}
[[
15 The opening paragraph creates a tone of
(1) authority (3) familiarity
(2) sympathy (4) irony
16 The author states that “these names drip lightly …
off our tongues” (lines 2 and 3) in order to
suggest that most people
(1) will recognize them
(2) have misquoted them
(3) will respect them
(4) have ignored them
17 Phrases such as “When the need comes” (line 2),
“Another dictionary eponym” (line 18), and
“That brings us to…” (line 27) serve to
(1) introduce theories
(2) define vocabulary
(3) indicate flashbacks
(4) provide transition
18 The use of the dash in “until 1852 — 47 years
later” (line 36) emphasizes Roget’s
(1) growing disinterest
(2) personal dedication
(3) poor scholarship
(4) excellent reputation
19 According to the passage, Noah Webster and
Peter Roget are alike because they both
(1) were physicians
(2) became professors
(3) had multiple interests
(4) established a charity
20 The purpose of the final paragraph is to
(1) caution future readers
(2) encourage further research
(3) restate accepted assumptions
(4) provide background information
]]
&&Arnold Melnick, DO
“But Do You Know Who They Were?”
from AMWA Journal, 2007&&
##August 2011##
{{
That night, Susan and I stood on the banks of the river, which was moving blackly with
its load of white ice floes.1 The floes were flat on the top and big as the floor of my cabin.
Some were as big as a river barge. They all moved downstream in a ghostly procession,
separated by jagged black lines where the water was bare. The edges crunched when they
touched and hissed when they swept by. In the center of the river, where the current ran
swifter, a band of floes moved much more quickly than those near the sides.
The moon was full, which would make the footing easier for Susan, for she must jump
from floe to floe to cross the river. We stood alone—hand in hand at the edge of water, our
skin separated by the wool of our mittens. No other eyes, no other soul, would watch her
go. Silence, stillness, cold. They chimed about us as one snowy chord. …
When I saw Susan step upon the ice, I bit my lower lip till the blood flowed down my
chin and crusted in the cold. Here the riverbank was no higher than a step, as from house
to yard. In the moonlight, new snow like sugar glittered atop the sheet of ice lying along the
bank. Behind her, in a lengthening path, Susan’s footprints indented the sparkling snow. She
moved toward the center of the river as calmly as though crossing a broad
moonlit road cut through the brush and trees of the wilderness.
When she came to the first black edge, she stepped across the open water as though it
were a mere stream. The next floe was smaller, and the next even smaller; they dipped or
tilted slightly when she stepped onto them. The spans of open water between them seemed
wider and wider, and sometimes she waited for the current to bring the ice rafts closer
together. Then she leapt the narrowed fissure and walked on. …
As the current accelerated and the spaces between floes widened, Susan ran and
jumped from raft to raft; my heart hung in the air with her. In the center of the river, the
swifter current zipped the ice rafts downstream, with Susan standing on one of them. Her
arms fluttered once for balance, twice. …
At last the treacherous midsection of river was traversed. She was far from me
now—a dark upright using the flatness: flying and landing, running and leaping, from floe
to floe. I saw shapes in the ice rafts, mostly like enormous animals, flat, not like a natural
swan or bear but flat as a cookie animal or a tin weathervane. Near the other side,
approaching a bend, she had to wait for her floe to come close to the bank. Holding the
stitch2 in my side, I continued walking as rapidly downstream as I could till I came to a high
but tangled shoreline that thwarted me. Soon the current would sweep Susan’s floe beyond
my sight. O, carry her close, carry her close, now, I prayed to the ice, and I prayed that
Susan would not feel herself passing beyond my sight and take the risk of trying to jump
ashore when the gulf remained too great. The floe that wheeled her toward the far shore
was like the palm of a hand, open and presentational.
Patient Susan! Her ice raft nudged the shore, and she jumped. Even as her shoes
landed on the snowy bank, she turned and looked exactly where I stood. Together we
lifted our arms, blowing each other a kiss across the water, for we had not kissed on 
parting, saving it till she should be safe, and trusting the sweet air to be our go-between.
And then one shout, though it was small from the distance, from Susan: Freedom!
}}
[[
9 In paragraph one, the narrator uses imagery to
establish both the
(1) mood and setting
(2) conflict and characters
(3) theme and structure
(4) tone and dialogue
10 The language of paragraph two creates a sense of
the characters’
(1) frustration (3) satisfaction
(2) fascination (4) isolation
11 The description of Susan’s movements in lines 17
through 21 indicates that she is
(1) reckless (3) frightened
(2) courageous (4) encouraged
12 The comparison between the floes and the “spans
of open water” (line 19) suggests an increasing
(1) pace (3) danger
(2) depth (4) excitement
13 The “dark upright using the flatness” (line 27)
most likely refers to Susan
(1) climbing up the river bank
(2) waving in the darkness
(3) sitting on an ice raft
(4) moving across the water
14 One conclusion that can be drawn from the final
line is that Susan has
(1) escaped (3) become wealthy
(2) found friends (4) competed
]]
&&—Sena Jeter Naslund
excerpted from Ahab’s Wife, 1999
William Morrow and Company, Inc.&&
##January 2012##
{{
Lynda LaPlante, 45, just wanted to do something nice for her boyfriend, Roland. So
when she heard that singer John Mayer was performing at the Tweeter Center in Mansfield,
Massachusetts, she surfed the Internet hoping to buy a pair of tickets. A “Buy Tickets Now”
Web link took LaPlante to TheSeats.com, where she nabbed two lawn seats at $60 each,
plus an additional $15 for shipping and $18 in service fees. Total price: $153.
Too bad the tickets really cost $24.95 each. Unbeknownst to LaPlante, she had just
made a way-overpriced, sorry-no-refunds deal on an Internet ticket site. There are two
types of ticket sellers, on the Web: the first, primary sellers, includes box offices and
authorized companies such as Ticketmaster and Tickets.com. The next group is known as
secondary sellers. These more risky dot-coms range from ticket brokers—companies that
scoop up in-demand tickets and resell them for more than face value (using automated
software and phone banks, resellers can snap up thousands of tickets within minutes of a
sale)—to marketplace websites such as StubHub, RazorGator, eBay, and Craigslist, where
individuals can sell tickets for any price, with almost zero guarantees for the buyer. The
result: a Wild West ticket market that’s become anywhere from a $3 billion to $20 billion
industry.
One of the scalper’s best weapons: deception. Thanks to the Internet, sellers can lure
buyers to sites that look official but are actually havens for high-priced tickets. That’s how
AARP THE MAGAZINE deputy editor Nancy Graham, 51, was duped. While searching the
Internet for “Wolf Trap”—a performing arts center in Virginia—and “tickets,” she
mistakenly ended up on GreatSeats.com and bought a pair of orchestra seats to a Doobie
Brothers concert for $160 each. Face value $40. “I feel like a fool,” she says. …
Price, however, isn’t the only problem: all too often buyers of scalped tickets don’t get
what they paid for. Arline Zatz, 69, forked over $200 for two $25 seats she bought while
personally visiting a local broker. “I knew they were overpriced and I resented it, but I took
them because they were supposedly in a superior location,” she says. Instead, her view was
blocked by a large television camera. Adding to her irritation: “We saw plenty of empty
seats.”…
Some artists are fighting back. In 2006 rock star Tom Petty launched a new fan club to
give faithful followers the first shot at the best seats for his summer tour. When ticket
brokers and independent scalpers joined the club to buy and then resell premium seats for
five times their retail value, Petty’s management and promoters had the last laugh.
Ticketmaster, the official distributor for Petty’s tour, and the various arenas painstakingly
matched seat locations listed for sale online with those purchased during the fan-club
presale—and voided more than 1,400 tickets so they could be resold to true fans. Buyers
had to show an ID to pick up their tickets on show night. Petty’s manger, Tony Dimitriades,
calls it “a step in the right direction and a major strike on behalf of the good guys.” …
Even industry giant Ticketmaster is making a stand with its online channel, “Stop the
Scammers” (www.ticketmaster.com/stopthescammers). The site allows consumers to report
ticket fraud and includes links to consumer-protection agencies. …
}}
[[
15 According to the passage, when Lynda LaPlante
purchased John Mayer tickets she became a
victim of
(1) cyber lingo
(2) corporate advertisements
(3) price gouging
(4) spam e-mail
16 Evidence of the passage’s use of informal
language is shown in which word?
(1) “nabbed” (line 4)
(2) “risky” (line 10)
(3) “deception” (line 17)
(4) “mistakenly” (line 21)
17 The purpose of the dashes as used in lines
10 through 13 and line 20 is to
(1) provide definitions
(2) introduce contrast
(3) identify the narrator
(4) present direct quotations
18 According to the passage, artists like Tom Petty
work with legitimate ticket brokers and venue
sites to
(1) organize tours
(2) protect consumers
(3) promote songs
(4) increase sales
19 The overall tone of the passage can best be
described as
(1) fascinated (3) amused
(2) confused (4) aggravated
20 A major purpose of the passage is to
(1) encourage new artists
(2) attract more fans
(3) educate ticket buyers
(4) advertise secondary sellers
]]
&&—Laura Daily
excerpted from “Good Seats, Bad Deals”
AARP THE MAGAZINE, May/June 2007&&
##January 2012##