{{
1 Medicine is of all the arts the most noble; but, owing to the ignorance of those who practice
it, and of those who, inconsiderately, form a judgment of them, it is at present far behind
all the other arts. Their mistake appears to me to arise principally from this, that in the
cities there is no punishment connected with the practice of medicine (and with it alone)
except disgrace, and that does not hurt those who are familiar with it. Such persons are
like the figures which are introduced in tragedies, for as they have the shape, and dress,
and personal appearance of an actor, but are not actors, so also physicians are many in
title but very few in reality.
2 Whoever is to acquire a competent knowledge of medicine, ought to be possessed of
the following advantages: a natural disposition; instruction; a favorable position for the
study; early tuition; love of labour; leisure. First of all, a natural talent is required; for,
when Nature leads the way to what is most excellent, instruction in the art takes place,
which the student must try to appropriate to himself by reflection, becoming an early pupil
in a place well adapted for instruction. He must also bring to the task a love of labour
and perseverance, so that the instruction taking root may bring forth proper and abundant
fruits.
3 Instruction in medicine is like the culture of the productions of the earth. For our
natural disposition, is, as it were, the soil; the tenets of our teacher are, as it were, the seed;
instruction in youth is like the planting of the seed in the ground at the proper season;
the place where the instruction is communicated is like the food imparted to vegetables
by the atmosphere; diligent study is like the cultivation of the fields; and it is time which
imparts strength to all things and brings them to maturity.
4 Having brought all these requisites to the study of medicine, and having acquired a true
knowledge of it, we shall thus, in travelling through the cities, be esteemed physicians not
only in name but in reality. But inexperience is a bad treasure, and a bad fund to those who
possess it, whether in opinion or reality, being devoid of self-reliance and contentedness,
and the nurse both of timidity and audacity.* For timidity betrays a want of powers, and
audacity a lack of skill. They are, indeed, two things, knowledge and opinion, of which
the one makes its possessor really to know, the other to be ignorant.
5 Those things which are sacred, are to be imparted only to sacred persons; and it is
not lawful to impart them to the profane until they have been initiated in the mysteries
of the science.
}}
[[

●15 Based on paragraph 1, which of the
following best characterizes bad
physicians?
A. They are greedy.
B. They are pretenders.
C. They are difficult to contact.
D. They are located only in the cities.
ID:293634 A Common
●16 According to paragraph 2, what must
accompany the personal traits of a
physician?
A. a good education
B. a supportive family
C. approval from the gods
D. popularity in the community
ID:293635 C Common
●17 If the author of the passage were to
use a heading for each paragraph,
which heading would fit best before
paragraph 3?
A. An Herbal Treatment
B. Medicine and Gardening
C. The Growth of a Physician
D. Understand Agriculture First
ID:293640 A Common
●18 Read paragraph 5 in the box below.
Those things which are sacred, are to
be imparted only to sacred persons;
and it is not lawful to impart them
to the profane until they have been
initiated in the mysteries of the
science.
Based on the paragraph, what is the
relationship between the words “sacred”
and “profane”?
A. The two words are antonyms.
B. The two words are synonyms.
C. “Sacred” is the root word of
“profane.”
D. “Profane” is an outdated word
for “sacred.”

]]
//10//
\\2015\\
{{
 YOU WOULDN’T THINK something
as unscientific as accident could have
played much of a role in the life of Tim
Berners-Lee, the brilliant British physicist
and computer scientist who in 1991 invented
the World Wide Web. He conceived it and
still controls a lot of how it operates from
his unimposing office at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. In 1999, Time
placed Berners-Lee on its list of the “100
Persons of the Century.” No fewer than
seven different universities have awarded
him honorary degrees.
2 But the great breakthrough engineered
by this icon of cyberspace did occur, in
part, by chance. “There was an element of
serendipity,”1 says Arthur Molella, director
of the Lemelson Center for the Study of
Invention and Innovation at the Smithsonian’s
National Museum of American History. “At
first, he was just noodling around, trying to
find a way to organize his research files. So
he began to develop a tool just for his own
personal use.”
3 The “tool” was a software program
that, as Berners-Lee puts it, was “really
useful for keeping track of all the random
associations one comes across in real life,
and [which] brains are supposed to be
so good at remembering—but sometimes
mine wouldn’t.” He called it Enquire, and it
worked so well, creating effective linkages
between huge amounts of information,
that it eventually became the basis for the
revolution we now casually refer to as
the Web. “It would be akin to a carpenter
building a little cabinet for himself,”
Molella says, “and suddenly discovering
he could store the entire world inside the
thing. There was quite a bit of luck in it.”
4 The element of chance has helped
produce many of the most important 
innovations in modern life. Many are
created by it; others become successful
because of it, and some fail for the same
reason. As Mark Twain, an inventor himself,
once scribbled in his notebook: “Name the
greatest of all the inventors. Accident.” If
you don’t believe it, go into your kitchen
and look around. There might be a Teflon
pan on the stove, a microwave oven above it,
Post-its sticking out of cookbooks, matches
in a drawer; Coke, Popsicles and ketchup
stashed in a refrigerator. Accident played a
role in their invention.
5 Happenstance2 works in many ways. One
is the observed event: the “invention” is the
way the mind seizes upon an inconspicuous
occurrence. The best known of these is
Alexander Fleming’s role in the discovery
of penicillin. One day in 1928 some mold
drifted through an open window in a London
hospital and landed in Fleming’s petri dish,
where he’d placed a culture of staphylococcus
bacteria. What Fleming did next got him
and two colleagues a Nobel Prize in 1945:
he looked through the microscope. What
he saw was the mold efficiently destroying
the germs. Presto! The creation of penicillin
began with that unlikely turn of events.
6 But Robert Friedel, historian of
technology at the University of Maryland,
cautions that “serendipity is no accident.”
What’s important about an unintended
event, Friedel asserts, is the creative way
it is used. As Louis Pasteur once said,
“Chance favors only the prepared mind.”
7 Any of us might happen to see a cat
pull feathers through a birdcage; but when
Eli Whitney saw that, he got the idea of
how to comb cotton mechanically. Hence
the cotton gin. “Some people are just
more likely to pay attention when they see
something,” says Rini Paiva of the National
Inventors Hall of Fame in Akron, Ohio. “If
you have a certain type of brain, you might
see something weird and say, ‘Hey, what
can I do with this?’”
8 Take Percy Lebaron Spencer. A hero of
World War II for his work in developing
radar, Spencer obtained more than 120
patents in his lifetime. One day shortly after
the war, he was walking through his lab
at the Raytheon Company in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, when he stopped briefly
by a magnetron—the tube that produces
the high-frequency microwaves that power
radar. “He was working on things like
missile-defense systems,” Paiva says. “But
just that second he got a strange feeling.
He realized that a candy bar in his jacket
pocket had melted.” Odd, Spencer thought.
Immediately, he performed a makeshift
experiment: he put some popcorn kernels in
front of the magnetron. Soon, popcorn was
popping all over the place. “There’s actually
a drawing of a bag of popcorn in one of
Spencer’s patents,” Paiva says. “Other
people might just make a note or two in a
lab notebook and let it go. But right away 
Percy Spencer was thinking about what this
could be used for—a microwave oven.”
9 It’s not just scientists hanging around
high-tech labs whom accident favors. Hans
Lippershey, a 17th-century Dutch eyeglass
maker, simply happened—so the story
goes—to look through two lenses one
day and notice that objects at a distance
were greatly magnified. When he put the
lenses in a tube, he created the world’s first
telescope. John Walker was a pharmacist,
not a scientist. One day in 1826 he was
mixing potassium chlorate and antimony
sulfide together with a stick, but the mixture
stuck to the stick. When he tried to scrape
the stuff off against the stone floor, it burst
into flames. Walker quickly produced for
sale the first friction matches, or, to use
his catchy name, “sulphuretted peroxide
strikables.”
10 Inspiration can take a lot longer to strike
than a match. Frank Epperson was an 11-yearold boy at the dawn of the 20th century
when he accidentally left a mixture of soda
powder and water out on the back porch one
cold night. In it was the stick he’d used as
a mixer. Next morning, Epperson found the
soda water frozen around the stick. Nearly 20
years passed before he realized that by adding
some flavoring, he could concoct a frosty
treat, and with that he began to manufacture
what he called “Eppsicles.” Eventually the
name changed, and he earned royalties on
more than 60 million Popsicles. (That success
inspired the creation of the Fudgsicle, the
Creamsicle and the Dreamsicle.)
11 Sometimes Lady Luck delivers the
invention but not the fortune that should
go with it. One day in 1839, a failed
hardware salesman was tinkering at his
boardinghouse in Woburn, Massachusetts.
He’d been hauled off to debtor’s prison so
often that he called it his “hotel.” Even
there, he kept doing experiments, doggedly
trying to make a useful material out of a
substance from Brazil called rubber. People
bought it for erasing—“rubbing” out
mistakes. Because it became brittle in the
cold and melted in high heat, that was about
all it was good for. The amateur inventor
tried mixing it with numerous chemicals all
without success, until that day in Woburn
when he blended rubber with sulfur—and
happened to drop the mixture onto a hot
stove. After he cleaned it up, he realized
that the rubber had suddenly become more
solid, yet was still flexible.
12 Charles Goodyear had vulcanized
rubber, a process that gives it useful
properties, such as strength, elasticity and
stability. (Today it is used in everything
from automobile tires to golf balls.) But
that practical discovery did little to help
Goodyear himself. His many patents were
regularly violated; when he died in 1860,
he was more than $200,000 in debt.
13 In one common scenario, inventors are
hard at work trying to make one thing when
accident intervenes to create something
else. The first practical synthetic dye was
“invented” when an 18-year-old student in London
 was trying to synthesize an
antimalarial drug; the material that led to
throwaway tissues was first intended as a
filter for gas masks.
14 In the late 1960s, 3M Company
researcher Spence Silver was trying to
create a superglue but ended up with
the opposite—a glue that wouldn’t dry,
wouldn’t melt and hardly stuck to anything.
It could just barely hold two pieces of paper
together. What the devil could he use the
stuff for? Silver never did come up with a
good answer, but five years later a fellow
employee, Art Fry, began using the glue on
small scraps of paper, making bookmarks
for his church hymnal. It took another eight
years before “Post-it” sticky notepaper
became an overnight sensation.
}}
[[
●8 According to paragraphs 1–3, what was
Berners-Lee doing when he conceived of
the World Wide Web?
A. building a cupboard
B. brainstorming with friends
C. attempting to get organized
D. trying to make profitable goods
ID:283648 A Common
 ●9 In paragraph 4, what is the most likely
reason the author says to “go into your
kitchen and look around”?
A. to convince his readers he is
speaking the truth
B. to suggest that some devices could
be improved
C. to point out that many new devices
are related to cooking
D. to provide readers with motivation to
think of their own ideas
ID:294564 C Common
 ●10 According to the article, which of the
following was most important to the
invention of the cotton gin?
A. religion
B. medicine
C. an animal
D. the weather
ID:283656 B Common
 ●11 Which of the following would be the
best heading for paragraph 7?
A. How New Ideas Become
Patented
B. How the Mind Creates through
Observation
C. How Untried Methods Often Meet
Resistance
D. How History Was Influenced by
Everyday Contraptions
●12 According to the article, how was
Charles Goodyear most different from
other inventors in the article?
A. He kept his discoveries hidden
from colleagues.
B. He did not understand the impact
of his discoveries.
C. He made discoveries that were
important to the world.
D. He did not achieve financial success
through his discoveries.
ID:283661 C Common
 ●13 Which of the following sentences best
supports the main idea of the article?
A. “He conceived it and still controls
a lot of how it operates from his
unimposing office at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.” (paragraph 1)
B. “No fewer than seven different
universities have awarded him
honorary degrees.” (paragraph 1)
C. “The creation of penicillin began
with that unlikely turn of events.”
(paragraph 5)
D. “He’d been hauled off to debtor’s
prison so often that he called it his
‘hotel.’” (paragraph 11)
ID:283663 D Common
 ●14 How is the article mainly organized?
A. in chronological order
B. by order of importance
C. by comparison and contrast
D. through a series of examples
ID:283665 C Common
 ●15 What is the definition of scenario as it
is used in paragraph 13?
A. disaster
B. sacrifice
C. situation
D. presentation 
]]
//8//
\\2015\\
{{
1 When I was asked to write the foreword to The Freedom Writers Diary, I must say I
was extremely honored and proud, but at the same time amazed by how many wonderful
things can happen in such a short time.
2 I met the students of Wilson High School in March 1996, when thanks to their
dedication, effort and will, they invited my parents, Mirna (my best friend from Bosnia,
who was living with me at the time) and myself to come to the city of Long Beach,
California. When I met them, I was touched by their warmth and kindness. They were
teenagers just like me, and like all young people all over the world, they have an amazing
potential to grow into truly great people, leaders, ones who will inspire others.
3 These students and their teacher, Erin Gruwell, chose to read Anne Frank: The Diary
of a Young Girl, my own book, Zlata’s Diary: A Child’s Life in Sarajevo (and many
other books), and were inspired to start writing their own diaries. They had organized
themselves and chose to do something different, something memorable, something
powerful and humane. They chose to rid themselves of doing things the easy way, the
way they’ve always been done, and chose to write, to create, to fight stereotypes and
live up to the name of true Freedom Writers. I am immensely proud and happy to have
had a chance to meet them and to play some role in their “growth” as human beings.
4 I started writing my own diary before the war in Bosnia because I wanted to have a
place to record my childhood and create something that I could look back on and laugh,
cry and reminisce.1 I wanted to see myself grow through my writing. Some of my older
girlfriends had their own diaries, and having read the diaries of Anne Frank and Adrian
Mole, I was absolutely certain that writing a diary was the right thing to do. I never 
imagined that my diary would be published, and certainly didn’t expect it to become
a war diary. I also never dreamed that my childhood would be cut short. These things
seemed too impossible to think about, because it’s human nature to always believe that
“bad” things happen to other people, not us. But when misfortune comes our way, we
find ourselves surprised, confused, scared, angry and sad.
5 When the Bosnian war started with all its horrors and disrupted my happy and
carefree childhood, my diary became more than a place to record daily events. It became
a friend, the paper that it was made of was ready and willing to accept anything and
everything I had to say; it could handle my fear, my questions, my sadness. I discovered
the beauty of writing—when one can pour oneself onto a great white emptiness and
fill it with emotions and thoughts and leave them there forever. And I kept on writing
during almost two years of war; it became a type of therapy for dealing with everything
that was going on.
6 I see a parallel between the Freedom Writers and myself because we’ve all been subjected
to things in our surroundings that could have made us feel like victims. Life brings
good things and bad things, it makes people sad and happy in their own homes, within
their families, in school and on the street. Sometimes we suffer because of many things
over which we have no control: the color of our skin, poverty, our religion, our family
situation, war. It would be easy to become a victim of our circumstances and continue
feeling sad, scared or angry; or instead, we could choose to deal with injustice humanely
and break the chains of negative thoughts and energies, and not let ourselves sink into it.
Writing about the things that happen to us allows us to look objectively at what’s going
on around us and turn a negative experience into something positive and useful. This
process requires a lot of work, effort and greatness, but it is possible, and the Freedom
Writers have proved it—they’ve chosen a difficult, but powerful, path.
7 After I left Bosnia, the war continued, and as we’ve recently seen, a similar thing
happened in Kosovo. People have asked me what I think about this, and all I can say is
that it makes me terribly sad. Now, almost all of the young former Yugoslavians know
what a bomb sounds like, what a cellar is and what the absence of water, electricity or
home feels like. And again, these children and young people had nothing to do with
the situation they found themselves in. I just hope that the anger, hate and sadness
they have experienced will not remain inside them, and that they will be able to rise
above their experiences. Because if they grow up holding on to such terrible feelings,
it could lead to another war sometime in the future when the fate of the country is in
their hands. This is why I believe that everything the Freedom Writers have overcome
and accomplished is very important and must be respected. If they had chosen to stay
encapsulated2 in the anger and hate that surrounded them in their neighborhoods, the
seeds of hatred and fear would have grown with them and history would repeat itself
with their children in the future. The Freedom Writers chose to break this cycle and
make their positive experiences a lesson for generations to come.
8 And, of course, I will always very highly respect and admire the Freedom Writers’
mentor, their friend and teacher, Erin Gruwell, who is also my friend. She never wants to
be congratulated or held responsible for the great things that came out of Room 203 at
Wilson High School, but she must be. She was (and still is) much more than a teacher to the
Freedom Writers. She was a parent to those who did not have, or could not communicate
with, their own; she was an older friend who was fun to be around; but she was also
very loyal, someone who cared and fought for each one of her “kids.” She shared her
education, tenacity3 and love with them and made a huge difference in her students’ lives.
They could have remained the “underachievers” they’d been labeled before they arrived
in her classroom. But in just several years, she made a tremendous difference and created
a safe place for them to grow and blossom into amazing people. She made authors and,
I dare say, historical figures out of them. Many teachers consider their after-school time
to be precious, but Erin gave herself over to her work. She was dedicated to helping her
students learn, opening their eyes to injustice and guiding them to the weapons (in this
case a pen, knowledge, a measure of faith, and an unyielding determination) with which to
fight intolerance. Finally, she taught them how to assume their rightful place in the world.
I know her students will remember her the rest of their lives, as well they should. I wish
that teachers everywhere were like her—because the world would be a much better place.
I always say that the young people are the future of the world, and if we start with them
first, if we educate and develop a sense of tolerance among them, our future, the future
of this world, will be in good hands for generations to come.
How many good things can come out of a bad situation? I’m a perfect example.
9 I was a small happy Sarajevan girl whose country was struck by war. Suddenly I was
put in the position of having some say and possible influence in the world. I did not
want that responsibility, and I wish that my diary had never been published; if not for
the war, there would have been no reason to share it with the world. But nonetheless,
some good has come out of it.
10 Anne Frank’s diary inspired the world, and good has come out of her tragedy. Her
strength kept her going for as long as it could, and subsequently has been recognized
by millions of people, young and old. The greatness of those who are no longer with
us fortunately remains to lead and inspire those left behind.

}}
[[
●1 Based on the foreword, the author’s
character can best be described as
A. sad and resentful.
B. cheerful and excited.
C. doubting and uncertain.
D. thoughtful and optimistic.
ID:277019 B Common
●2 Based on paragraph 2, what is a great
advantage that young people have?
A. They have few responsibilities.
B. Their future is full of possibilities.
C. They are naturally talented writers.
D. Their parents are still teaching them.
ID:277023 D Common
●3 What does paragraph 3 suggest about
the Freedom Writers?
A. They felt their writing should
win awards.
B. They created a work that was
controversial.
C. They had many people to help
with their efforts.
D. They consciously decided to take
positive action.
ID:277025 D Common
●4 What is the main function of paragraph 4?
A. It describes the people who
influenced the Freedom Writers.
B. It explains how Filipovic and the
Freedom Writers are changing.
C. It contrasts Filipovic’s beliefs with
those of the Freedom Writers.
D. It serves as a transition to a
description of Filipovic’s experiences.
ID:277027 B Common
●5 According to the foreword, what is the
main reason Filipovic started her own
diary?
A. She was intending to write
a book.
B. She hoped to document everyday
events.
C. She was forced to stay home during
a war.
D. She wanted to copy the work of
other writers.
●6 Based on paragraph 8, what is the most
likely reason the author puts the term
“underachievers” in quotation marks?
A. to show that the term is
outdated
B. to show that the term is not
easy to define
C. to show that the term is being
spoken out loud
D. to show that the term does not
apply to the students
ID:277040 A Common
●7 Based on the foreword, what does
the author suggest when she calls the
Freedom Writers “historical figures”?
A. The Freedom Writers will be
remembered for their accomplishments.
B. The Freedom Writers have grown up
since their book was published.
C. The Freedom Writers based their
work on events of long ago.
D. The Freedom Writers helped record the
pain of war.
ID:277047 A Common
●8 Read the phrase from paragraph 5 in the
box below.
When the Bosnian war started with
all its horrors and disrupted my happy
and carefree childhood, . . .
Which of the following words could
best be used in place of the word
disrupted?
A. disturbed
B. distracted
C. discovered
D. discouraged
ID:277049 A Common
●9 Based on paragraph 8, a mentor is a
person who
A. guides others.
B. collects diaries.
C. fights injustice.
D. overcomes difficulties.
]]
//7//
\\2015\\
{{
0 Speech Honoring Abraham Lincoln
0 by Carl Sandburg
1 Not often in the story of mankind does a man arrive on earth who is both steel and velvet,
who is as hard as rock and soft as drifting fog, who holds in his heart and mind the paradox
of terrible storm and peace unspeakable and perfect. Here and there across centuries come
reports of men alleged to have these contrasts. And the incomparable Abraham Lincoln,
born 150 years ago this day, is an approach if not a perfect realization of this character.
2 In the time of the April lilacs in the year 1865, on his death, the casket with his body
was carried north and west a thousand miles, and the American people wept as never before.
Bells sobbed, cities wore crepe,1 people stood in tears and with hats off as the railroad burial
car paused in the leading cities of seven states, ending its journey at Springfield, Illinois,
the home town.
3 During the four years he was president, he at times, especially in the first three months,
took to himself the powers of a dictator. He commanded the most powerful armies till then
assembled in modern warfare. He enforced conscription2 of soldiers for the first time in
American history. Under imperative necessity he abolished the right of habeas corpus.3 He
directed politically and spiritually the wild, massive, turbulent forces let loose in civil war.
4 He argued and pleaded for compensated emancipation of the slaves. The slaves were
property, they were on the tax books along with horses and cattle, the valuation of each slave
next to his name on the tax assessor’s books. Failing to get action on compensated emancipation,
as a chief executive having war powers, he issued the paper by which he declared the slaves to
be free under “military necessity.” In the end nearly $4 million worth of property was taken
away from those who were legal owners of it, property confiscated, wiped out as by fire
and turned to ashes, at his instigation and executive direction. Chattel property4 recognized
and lawful for 300 years was expropriated, seized without payment.
5 In the month the war began he told his secretary, John Hay, “My policy is to have no
policy.” Three years later in a letter to a Kentucky friend made public, he confessed plainly,
“I have been controlled by events.” His words at Gettysburg were sacred; yet strange with
a color of the familiar: “We cannot consecrate—we cannot hallow—this ground. The brave
men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far beyond our poor power
to add or detract.”
6 He could have said “the brave Union men.” Did he have a purpose in omitting the word
Union? Was he keeping himself and his utterance clear of the passion that would not be
good to look at when the time came for peace and reconciliation? Did he mean to leave an
implication that there were brave Union men, and brave Confederate men, living and dead,
who had struggled there? We do not know of a certainty. Was he thinking of the Kentucky
father whose two sons died in battle, one in Union blue, the other in Confederate gray, the
father inscribing on the stone over their double grave, “God knows which was right”? We
do not know. . . .
7 While the war winds howled, he insisted that the Mississippi was one river meant to
belong to one country, that railroad connection from coast to coast must be pushed through
and the Union Pacific Railroad made a reality. While the luck of war wavered and broke
and came again, as generals failed and campaigns were lost, he held enough forces of the
North together to raise new armies and supply them, until generals were found who made
war as victorious war has always been made—with terror, frightfulness, destruction, and on
both sides, North and South, valor and sacrifice past words of man to tell.
8 In the mixed shame and blame of the immense wrongs of two crashing civilizations,
often with nothing to say, he said nothing, slept not at all, and on occasions he was seen
to weep in a way that made weeping appropriate, decent, majestic. . . .
9 The people of many other countries take Lincoln now for their own. He belongs to them.
He stands for decency, honest dealing, plain talk, and funny stories. “Look where he came
from. Don’t he know all us strugglers, and wasn’t he a kind of tough struggler all his life
right up to the finish?” Something like that you can hear in any nearby neighborhood and
across the seas.
10 Millions there are who take him as a personal treasure. He had something they would
like to see spread everywhere over the world. Democracy? We can’t find words to say exactly
what it is, but he had it. In his blood and bones he carried it. In the breath of his speeches
and writings it is there. Popular government? Republican institution? Government where the
people have the say-so, one way or another telling their elected leaders what they want? He
had the idea. It’s there in the lights and shadows of his personality, a mystery that can be
lived but never fully spoken in words.
11 Our good friend the poet and playwright Mark Van Doren tells us, “To me, Lincoln
seems, in some ways, the most interesting man who ever lived. He was gentle, but his
gentleness was combined with a terrific toughness, an iron strength.”
12 How did Lincoln say he would like to be remembered? His beloved friend, Representative
Owen Lovejoy of Illinois, had died in May of 1864 and friends wrote to Lincoln and he
replied that the pressure of duties kept him from joining them in efforts for a marble
monument to Lovejoy, the last sentence of his letter saying, “Let him have the marble
monument along with the well-assured and more enduring one in the hearts of those who
love liberty, unselfishly, for all men.”
13 So perhaps we may say that the well-assured and most enduring memorial to Lincoln
is invisibly there, today, tomorrow, and for a long time yet to come in the hearts of lovers
of liberty, men and women who understand that wherever there is freedom there have been
those who fought, toiled, and sacrificed for it.
0 Eulogy for
0 WALT WHITMAN
0 (1819–1892)
0 by Robert Green Ingersoll
1 Again we in the mystery of life are brought face-to-face with the mystery of death. A great
man, a great American, is dead before us, and we have met to pay a tribute to his greatness and
to his worth. His fame is secure. He laid the foundation of it deep in the human heart. He was,
above all that I have known, the poet of humanity, of sympathy. Great he was—so great that he
rose above the greatest that he met without arrogance; and so great that he stooped to the lowest
without conscious condescension.1 He never claimed to be lower or greater than any other of
the sons of man. He came into our generation a free, untrammeled spirit, with sympathy for
all. His arm was beneath the form of the sick; he sympathized with the imprisoned and the
despised; and even on the brow of crime he was great enough to place the kiss of human sympathy.
One of the greatest lines in our literature is his. Speaking of an outcast—“Not until the sun
excludes the earth will I exclude you.” A charity as wide as the sky! And whenever there was
human suffering, human misfortune, the sympathy of Whitman bent above it as the firmament
bends above this earth. He was the poet of that divine democracy that gives equal rights to all
the sons and daughters of men. He uttered the great American voice, uttered a song worthy of
the great Republic.
2 He was the poet of life. He loved the clouds. He enjoyed the breath of morning, the twilight,
the wind, the winding streams. He loved to look at the sea when the winds and waves burst into
the whitecaps of joy. He loved the fields, the hills. He was acquainted with trees, with birds,
with all the beautiful objects on the earth; and he understood their meaning and used them that
he might exhibit his heart to his fellowmen. He was also the poet of love. He was not ashamed
of the divine passion that has built every home in the world; that divine passion that has painted
every picture and given us every real work of art—that divine passion that has made the world
worth living in and gives value to human life. He was the poet of the human race everywhere.
His sympathy went out over the seas to all the nations of the earth. And above genius, above all
the snowcapped peaks of intelligence, above his art, rises the man—greater than all.
3 He was true absolutely to himself. He was frank, candid, pure, serene, and noble. And for
years he was maligned2 and slandered, simply because he had the candor of nature. He will be
understood yet, and that for which he was condemned will add to the glory and the greatness
of his name. He wrote a liturgy for humanity—the greatest gospel that can be preached.
4 He was not afraid to live, not afraid to speak his thoughts. Neither was he afraid to die.
Cheerful every moment, the laughing nymphs of day remained that they might clasp the hand
of the veiled and silent sisters of the night when they should come. And when they did come,
Walt Whitman stretched his hand to both. And so, hand in hand, between smiles and tears, he
reached his journey’s end.
5 Today we give back to Mother Nature, to her clasp and kiss, one of the bravest, sweetest
souls that ever lived in human clay. Since he has lived, death is less fearful than it was before,
and thousands and millions will walk down into the dark valley of the shadow, holding Walt
Whitman by the hand, long after we are dead.
6 And so I lay this poor wreath upon this great man’s tomb. I loved him living and I love
him still.
}}
[[
●19 Read the sentence from paragraph 6 of the
speech in the box below.
He could have said “the brave Union
men.”
In the remainder of the paragraph, what
does the speaker speculate about Lincoln?
A. possible reasons underlying Lincoln’s
choice of words
B. possible reasons for Lincoln’s worries
about the country
C. whether Lincoln’s speech could have
worsened wartime discord
D. whether Lincoln’s speech could have
been more encouraging to soldiers
ID:309272 C Common
●20 In the eulogy for Whitman, what is the
main effect of the speaker’s use of the
pronouns “we” and “us”?
A. It reveals his strong feelings for
Whitman.
B. It heightens the formal tone of the
speech.
C. It emphasizes his connection with his
audience.
D. It mimics the language Whitman used
in his poetry.
●21 Based on paragraph 4 of the eulogy, why
does the speaker believe Whitman made
death “less fearful” for others?
A. Whitman accepted death
as part of life.
B. Whitman lived a long and
healthy life.
C. Whitman focused on death in
his writings.
D. Whitman publicized his belief in
an afterlife.
ID:309928 D Common
●22 Read the descriptions in the box below.
•	 Not often in the story of mankind
does a man arrive on earth who is
both steel and velvet, who is as
hard as rock and soft as drifting
fog, . . . (paragraph 1 of the speech)
•	 Great he was—so great that he
rose above the greatest that he
met without arrogance; and so
great that he stooped to the lowest
without conscious condescension.
(paragraph 1 of the eulogy)
Which technique is used for effect in both
descriptions?
A. literary allusions
B. familiar symbols
C. understated claims
D. contrasting images
ID:309268 D Common
●23 What do paragraph 8 of the speech and
paragraph 4 of the eulogy suggest about
Lincoln and Whitman?
A. Both had moments of deep anger.
B. Both had many human weaknesses.
C. Both were known as extremely
straightforward.
D. Both were capable of experiencing
deep emotion.
ID:309281 C Common
●24 Read the sentence from paragraph 9 of the
speech in the box below.
The people of many other countries
take Lincoln now for their own.
Which description from the eulogy
suggests that Whitman’s work had a
similar effect on people?
A. “He came into our generation
a free, untrammeled spirit, . . .”
B. “He loved to look at the sea . . .”
C. “He was the poet of the human
race everywhere.”
D. “He was true absolutely to himself.”
●25 Read the descriptions in the box below.
• He stands for decency, honest
dealing, plain talk, and funny
stories. (paragraph 9 of the speech)
• He was frank, candid, pure, serene,
and noble. (paragraph 3 of the
eulogy)
Based on the descriptions, “plain talk”
and “candid” most likely refer to which
characteristic?
A. respect
B. humility
C. sensitivity
D. truthfulness
ID:309927 A Common
●26 What do paragraph 13 of the speech and
paragraph 5 of the eulogy emphasize?
A. the lasting legacies of Lincoln
and Whitman
B. the difficulties of accepting the
loss of great men
C. the viewpoints embraced by Lincoln
and Whitman
D. the challenges in finding great men to
replace those who have died
]]
//10//
\\2015\\
