{{It was upon the 4th of March, as I have good reason to remember, that I rose somewhat
earlier than usual, and found that Sherlock Holmes had not yet finished his breakfast. The
landlady had become so accustomed to my late habits that my place had not been laid nor
my coffee prepared. With the unreasonable petulance1 of mankind I rang the bell and gave
a curt intimation that I was ready. Then I picked up a magazine from the table and attempted
to while away the time with it, while my companion munched silently at his toast. One of
the articles had a pencil-mark at the heading, and I naturally began to run my eye through
it. …
“From a drop of water,” said the writer, “a logician could infer the possibility of an
Atlantic or a Niagara without having seen or heard of one or the other. So all life is a great
chain, the nature of which is known whenever we are shown a single link of it. Like all other
arts, the Science of Deduction and Analysis is one which can only be acquired by long and
patient study, nor is life long enough to allow any mortal to attain the highest possible
perfection in it. Before turning to those moral and mental aspects of the matter which
present the greatest difficulties, let the inquirer begin by mastering more elementary
problems. Let him, on meeting a fellow-mortal, learn at a glance to distinguish the history
of the man and the trade or profession to which he belongs. Puerile2 as such an exercise
may seem, it sharpens the faculties of observation and teaches one where to look and what
to look for. By a man’s fingernails, by his coat-sleeve, by his boot, by his trouser-knees, by
the callosities of his forefinger and thumb, by his expression, by his shirt-cuffs—by each of
these things a man’s calling is plainly revealed. That all united should fail to enlighten the
competent inquirer in any case is almost inconceivable.”
“What ineffable twaddle!” I cried, slapping the magazine down on the table; “I never
read such rubbish in my life.”
“What is it?” asked Sherlock Holmes.
“Why, this article,” I said, pointing at it with my egg-spoon as I sat down to my
breakfast. “I see that you have read it, since you have marked it. I don’t deny that it is smartly
written. It irritates me, though. It is evidently the theory of some arm-chair lounger who
evolves all these neat little paradoxes in the seclusion of his own study. It is not practical.
I should like to see him clapped down in a third-class carriage on the Underground and
asked to give the trades of all his fellow-travellers. I would lay a thousand to one against
him.”
“You would lose your money,” Sherlock Holmes remarked, calmly. “As for the article,
I wrote it myself.”
“You?”
“Yes, I have a turn both for observation and for deduction. The theories which I have
expressed there, and which appear to you to be so chimerical, are really extremely
practical—so practical that I depend upon them for my bread-and-cheese.”
“And how?” I asked, involuntarily.
“Well, I have a trade of my own. I suppose I am the only one in the world. I’m a
consulting detective, if you can understand what that is. Here in London we have lots of
government detectives and lots of private ones. When these fellows are at fault they come
to me, and I manage to put them on the right scent. They lay all the evidence before me,
and I am generally able, by the help of my knowledge of the history of crime, to set them
straight. There is a strong family resemblance about misdeeds, and if you have all the details
of a thousand at your finger-ends, it is odd if you can’t unravel the thousand and first.
Lestrade is a well-known detective. He got himself into a fog recently over a forgery case,
and that was what brought him here.”
“And these other people?”
“They are mostly sent out by private inquiry agencies. They are all people who are in
trouble about something, and want a little enlightening. I listen to their story, they listen to
my comments, and then I pocket my fee.”
“But do you mean to say,” I said, “that without leaving your room you can unravel
some knot which other men can make nothing of, although they have seen every detail for
themselves?”
“Quite so. I have a kind of intuition that way. Now and again a case turns up which is a
little more complex. Then I have to bustle about and see things with my own eyes. You see,
I have a lot of special knowledge which I apply to the problem, and which facilitates matters
wonderfully. Those rules of deduction laid down in that article which aroused your scorn
are invaluable to me in practical work. Observation with me is second nature. You appeared
to be surprised when I told you, on our first meeting, that you had come from Afghanistan.”
“You were told, no doubt.”
“Nothing of the sort. I knew you came from Afghanistan. From long habit the train of
thought ran so swiftly through my mind that I arrived at the conclusion without being
conscious of intermediate steps. There were such steps, however. The train of reasoning
ran: ‘Here is a gentleman of a medical type, but with the air of a military man. Clearly an
army doctor, then. He has just come from the tropics, for his face is dark, and that is not the
natural tint of his skin, for his wrists are fair. He has undergone hardship and sickness, as
his haggard face says clearly. His left arm has been injured. He holds it in a stiff and
unnatural manner. Where in the tropics could an English army doctor have seen much
hardship and got his arm wounded? Clearly in Afghanistan.’ The whole train of thought did
not occupy a second. I then remarked that you came from Afghanistan, and you were
astonished.” …
I was still annoyed at his bumptious style of conversation. I thought it best to change the
topic.
“I wonder what that fellow is looking for?” I asked, pointing to a stalwart, plainly dressed
individual who was walking slowly down the other side of the street, looking anxiously at the
numbers. He had a large, blue envelope in his hand, and was evidently the bearer of a
message.
“You mean the retired sergeant of marines,” said Sherlock Holmes.
“Brag and bounce!” thought I to myself. “He knows that I cannot verify his guess.”
The thought had hardly passed through my mind when the man whom we were watching
caught sight of the number on our door, and ran rapidly across the roadway. We heard a
loud knock, a deep voice below, and heavy steps ascending the stair.
“For Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” he said, stepping into the room and handing my friend the
letter.
Here was an opportunity of taking the conceit out of him. He little thought of this when
he made that random shot. “May I ask, my lad,” I said, blandly, “what your trade may be?”
“Commissionnaire, sir,” he said, gruffly. “Uniform away for repairs.”
“And you were?” I asked, with a slightly malicious glance at my companion.
“A sergeant, sir, Royal Marine Light Infantry, sir. No answer? Right, sir.”
He clicked his heels together, raised his hand in a salute, and was gone.}}
[[
1 The phrase “with the unreasonable petulance of
mankind” (line 4) emphasizes the narrator’s
(1) frustration with himself for missing sleep
(2) irritation about not finding his breakfast
ready
(3) concern regarding the pencil-mark on the
newspaper
(4) impatience with Sherlock Holmes’s silence
2 How do the words “logician” (line 9), “deduction”
(lines 12, 36, and 59), and “analysis” (line 12)
advance the author’s purpose?
(1) by indicating the relationship between
science and art
(2) by suggesting the reasons why private
inquiry agencies seek outside help
(3) by highlighting the complexity of the crimes
encountered by Sherlock Holmes
(4) by emphasizing the systematic nature of
Sherlock Holmes’s approach to solving
crimes
3 What is the effect of withholding the identity of
Sherlock Holmes as the author of the article
(lines 9 through 34)?
(1) It creates a somber mood.
(2) It foreshadows an unwelcome turn of events.
(3) It allows the reader to learn the narrator’s
true feelings.
(4) It leads the reader to misunderstand who
the writer is.
4 In this passage, the conversation between
Holmes and the narrator (lines 23 through 38)
serves to
(1) reinforce the narrator’s appreciation for
deduction
(2) establish a friendship between the narrator
and Holmes
(3) reveal how Holmes makes his living
(4) expose some of Holmes’s misdeeds
5 As used in line 37, the word “chimerical” most
nearly means
(1) unfair (3) aggravating
(2) unrealistic (4) contradictory
6 Which analysis is best supported by the details in
lines 43 through 55 of the text?
(1) Private detectives base their analyses on an
understanding of human nature.
(2) Sherlock Holmes’s association with other
well-known detectives improves his
crime-solving abilities.
(3) Government detectives are mostly ineffective
at solving complicated crimes.
(4) Sherlock Holmes’s intuition relies on his
ability to detect similarities among various
crimes.
7 Which quotation best reflects a central theme in
the text?
(1) “So all life is a great chain, the nature of
which is known whenever we are shown a
single link of it” (lines 10 and 11)
(2) “What ineffable twaddle ... I never read such
rubbish in my life” (lines 23 and 24)
(3) “They are all people who are in trouble about
something, and want a little enlightening”
(lines 50 and 51)
(4) “Now and again a case turns up which is a
little more complex” (lines 56 and 57)
8 The narrator views the arrival of the messenger as
“an opportunity of taking the conceit out of him”
(line 87) because the narrator wishes to
(1) challenge Holmes’s theories of deduction
(2) stress the importance of self-confidence
(3) reveal Holmes’s true intentions
(4) practice his own deductive abilities
9 The author’s description of the conversation
between the narrator and the retired sergeant in
lines 88 through 92 serves mostly to
(1) develop a character
(2) create a flashback
(3) establish a comparison
(4) resolve a conflict
10 The conversation with the retired sergeant
(lines 89 through 91) leaves the narrator with a
sense of
(1) astonishment (3) pleasure
(2) confusion (4) distrust
]]
&&—A. Conan Doyle
excerpted from A Study in Scarlet, 1904
Harper & Brothers Publishers&&
##June 2014##
{{Science is a way of thinking much more than it is a body of knowledge. Its goal is to find
out how the world works, to seek what regularities there may be, to penetrate to the
connections of things—from subnuclear particles, which may be the constituents of all
matter, to living organisms, the human social community, and thence to the cosmos as a
whole. Our intuition is by no means an infallible guide. Our perceptions may be distorted
by training and prejudice or merely because of the limitations of our sense organs, which,
of course, perceive directly but a small fraction of the phenomena of the world. Even so
straightforward a question as whether in the absence of friction a pound of lead falls faster
than a gram of fluff was answered incorrectly by Aristotle and almost everyone else before
the time of Galileo. Science is based on experiment, on a willingness to challenge old
dogma, on an openness to see the universe as it really is. Accordingly, science sometimes
requires courage—at the very least the courage to question the conventional wisdom.
Beyond this the main trick of science is to really think of something: the shape of clouds
and their occasional sharp bottom edges at the same altitude everywhere in the sky; the
formation of a dewdrop on a leaf; the origin of a name or a word—Shakespeare, say, or
“philanthropic”; the reason for human social customs—the incest taboo, for example; how
it is that a lens in sunlight can make paper burn; how a “walking stick” got to look so much
like a twig; why the Moon seems to follow us as we walk; what prevents us from digging a
hole down to the center of the Earth; what the definition is of “down” on a spherical Earth;
how it is possible for the body to convert yesterday’s lunch into today’s muscle and sinew;
or how far is up—does the universe go on forever, or if it does not, is there any meaning to
the question of what lies on the other side? Some of these questions are pretty easy. Others,
especially the last, are mysteries to which no one even today knows the answer. They are
natural questions to ask. Every culture has posed such questions in one way or another.
Almost always the proposed answers are in the nature of “Just So Stories,” attempted
explanations divorced from experiment, or even from careful comparative observations.
But the scientific cast of mind examines the world critically as if many alternative worlds
might exist, as if other things might be here which are not. Then we are forced to ask why
what we see is present and not something else. Why are the Sun and the Moon and the
planets spheres? Why not pyramids, or cubes, or dodecahedra? Why not irregular, jumbly
shapes? Why so symmetrical, worlds? If you spend any time spinning hypotheses, checking
to see whether they make sense, whether they conform to what else we know, thinking of
tests you can pose to substantiate or deflate your hypotheses, you will find yourself doing
science. And as you come to practice this habit of thought more and more you will get
better and better at it. To penetrate into the heart of the thing—even a little thing, a blade
of grass, as Walt Whitman said—is to experience a kind of exhilaration that, it may be, only
human beings of all the beings on this planet can feel. We are an intelligent species and the
use of our intelligence quite properly gives us pleasure. In this respect the brain is like a
muscle. When we think well, we feel good. Understanding is a kind of ecstasy. …
Let us approach a much more modest question: not whether we can know the universe
or the Milky Way Galaxy or a star or a world. Can we know, ultimately and in detail, a grain
of salt? Consider one microgram of table salt, a speck just barely large enough for someone
with keen eyesight to make out without a microscope. In that grain of salt there are about
1016 sodium and chlorine atoms. This is a 1 followed by 16 zeros, 10 million billion atoms.
If we wish to know a grain of salt, we must know at least the three-dimensional positions of
each of these atoms. (In fact, there is much more to be known—for example, the nature of
the forces between the atoms—but we are making only a modest calculation.) Now, is this
number more or less than the number of things which the brain can know?
How much can the brain know? There are perhaps 1011 neurons in the brain, the
circuit elements and switches that are responsible in their electrical and chemical activity
for the functioning of our minds. A typical brain neuron has perhaps a thousand little wires,
called dendrites, which connect it with its fellows. If, as seems likely, every bit of information
in the brain corresponds to one of these connections, the total number of things knowable
by the brain is no more than 1014, one hundred trillion. But this number is only one
percent of the number of atoms in our speck of salt.
So in this sense the universe is intractable,1 astonishingly immune to any human
attempt at full knowledge. We cannot on this level understand a grain of salt, much less the
universe.
But let us look a little more deeply at our microgram of salt. Salt happens to be a
crystal in which, except for defects in the structure of the crystal lattice, the position of
every sodium and chlorine atom is predetermined. If we could shrink ourselves into this
crystalline world, we would see rank upon rank of atoms in an ordered array, a regularly
alternating structure—sodium, chlorine, sodium, chlorine specifying the sheet of atoms we
are standing on and all the sheets above us and below us. An absolutely pure crystal of salt
could have the position of every atom specified by something like 10 bits of information.2
This would not strain the information-carrying capacity of the brain.
If the universe had natural laws that governed its behavior to the same degree of
regularity that determines a crystal of salt, then, of course, the universe would be knowable.
Even if there were many such laws, each of considerable complexity, human beings might
have the capability to understand them all. Even if such knowledge exceeded the information-
carrying capacity of the brain, we might store the additional information outside our
bodies—in books, for example, or in computer memories—and still, in some sense, know
the universe. …
}}
[[15 The central idea of the first paragraph focuses on
the
(1) nature of scientific investigation
(2) unknowable nature of the universe
(3) growth of our understanding over time
(4) benefits of formal education
16 Which phrase from the text clarifies the meaning
of “dogma” as used in line 11?
(1) “constituents of all matter” (lines 3 and 4)
(2) “infallible guide” (line 5)
(3) “phenomena of the world” (line 7)
(4) “conventional wisdom” (line 12)
17 Which statement from the text best summarizes
the central idea of paragraph 2?
(1) “Its goal is to find out how the world works,
to seek what regularities there may be, to
penetrate to the connections of things” (lines 1 through 3)
(2) “But the scientific cast of mind examines the
world critically as if many alternative worlds
might exist, as if other things might be here
which are not” (lines 27 and 28)
(3) “We are an intelligent species and the use of
our intelligence quite properly gives us
pleasure” (lines 37 and 38)
(4) “Even if there were many such laws, each of
considerable complexity, human beings
might have the capability to understand
them all” (lines 69 and 70)
18 According to the text, the “main trick” (line 13) of
science is to
(1) follow one’s intuition
(2) observe and develop questions
(3) experiment and create laws
(4) accept one’s limitations
19 The examples presented in lines 27 through 31
help the reader understand
(1) how scientific inquiry differs from ordinary
questioning
(2) why multiple worlds could potentially exist
(3) how cultural stories influence scientific
observation
(4) why popular explanations rarely rely on
experimentation
20 Which statement best summarizes the central
claim made in lines 27 through 39?
(1) Science is based on human criticism of the
world.
(2) Science is based on the accuracy of human
perceptions.
(3) Humans have a capacity to experience joy
through their intelligence.
(4) Humans consider themselves superior to all
other species on the planet.
21 The purpose of the figurative language in lines 38
and 39 is to
(1) question the function of the human brain
(2) contrast the human brain with the brains of
other beings
(3) indicate the shape and composition of one’s
brain
(4) illustrate the effect of using one’s brain
22 The description of salt in lines 41 through 47
emphasizes the idea of
(1) interconnectedness (3) predictability
(2) complexity (4) uniqueness
23 What effect is created by the use of irony in line 47 and lines 53 through 55?
(1) humor (3) scorn
(2) doubt (4) awe
24 With which statement would the author of this
text most likely agree?
(1) Understanding the world is essential to our
well being.
(2) The human brain has an unlimited capacity
to store knowledge.
(3) Scientific inquiry should only focus on
objective reality.
(4) Technology allows us to have complete
knowledge of the universe.]]
&&—Carl Sagan
excerpted from Broca’s Brain, 1979
Random House&&
##June 2014##
{{
Against the clamor of the city, who could hear the prayers being uttered in Peace Lane?
Who would notice people whose dearest wish in life is not to be praised for merit but only
to avoid making mistakes? Here a lean-to shed has been added on to the terrace and the
courtyard roofed over to make a kitchen. If you were to look down upon the rooftops of the
city, you would find them in utter disarray, worn and dilapidated, structures built on top of
structures, taking up every bit of free space. This was especially true of the older longtang,
like Peace Lane—it’s a miracle that they haven’t collapsed yet. About a third of the tiles
were broken, patched over in places with bits of felt, the wooden frames on the doors and
windows were blackened and rotting, with everything in view a uniform ash gray.
But though it was falling apart on the outside, the spirit of the place remained; its inner
voice, though stifled, was still audible. But amid all the noises of this city, just what did this
voice amount to? There was never a moment of peace and quiet in the city; the day had its
sounds, as did the night, and between them they drowned that voice out. But it was still
there—it couldn’t be silenced because it was the foundation upon which the hubbub and
commotion fed; without it all of those noises would have been nothing but an empty echo.
But what did this voice say? Two words: to live. No matter how loud the noise became, no
matter what a rumpus it made, or how long it carried on, it could never find those two
words. Those two little words weighed a ton, so they sank, and sank—all the way down, to
the very bottom; only immaterial things like smoke and mist could float up to the surface.
It was impossible to listen to this voice without crying. The prayers whispered in Peace
Lane went on day and night, like an ever-burning alter [sic] lamp, but they weren’t burning
on oil: inch by inch, they were burning thoughts. In contrast, the chaotic noises echoing in
the city’s air were nothing but the scraps and leftovers of life, which is why they could be so
liberally strewn about. The prayers concealed throughout those thousands of Shanghai
longtang rang out louder and clearer than all the church bells in Europe: they created a
rumbling thunder that seemed to emerge from the earth itself, the sound of mountains
crumbling. A shame we had no way of participating in this ourselves, but just looking at the
abyss they created was enough to make the heart grow cold. See what they have done to this
place! It is hard to say whether this was a form of construction or destruction, but whatever
it was, it was massive.
What Peace Lane prayed for was peace itself. You could hear it even from the bell that
was rung every night to warn people to mind their kitchen fires. Peace is not something
ordinary, but Peace Lane had an ordinary heart and its prayers were quite humble as well;
these modest requests, however, were not easily granted. No major disaster had befallen
Peace Lane in many years, but little things kept coming up, such as someone falling off the
balcony while bringing in their laundry, another getting electrocuted when he turned off a
light switch with a wet hand, pressure cooker explosions, rat poison accidentally ingested.
If all these, who died wrongful deaths, had cried out, their howls would have been deafening.
So how could one not pray for peace and security?
In the early evening, when the lights came on, you could see in all the windows the
watchful eyes of frightened people looking out for signs of trouble. But whenever something
bad did happen, no one ever saw it coming. This was where Peace Lane had gone numb
and where it displayed its pragmatism. The residents were never prepared for the closest
dangers. Yes, they understood the dangers of fire and electricity, but beyond that they had
no imagination. And so if you were to see the people of Peace Lane praying, they would be
like idiots reciting a book from memory, chanting with their lips but not their minds,
repeating the same incantations over and over again. Meanwhile the flowerpot
sitting on the windowsill was just an inch away from falling down, but no one ever bothered
to move it; the termites had already done their work on the floors, but no one ever seemed
to care; illegal structures kept being added one on top of the other, causing the foundation
to sink, yet another one was about to be built. During the typhoon season, when Peace Lane
shook and rattled and it appeared as if the entire neighborhood was going to pieces, people
curled up in their rooms, complacently enjoying the cool breeze brought by the storm.
What people in Peace Lane prayed for was to be able to live in a fool’s paradise—they would
rather turn a blind eye and never ask questions. The pigeon whistles sounding in the
morning sang of peace, announcing the good but never the bad; but even if they had, would
that have made a difference? You might be able to escape it in the first round, but would
you escape in the second? Put that way, those prayers must imply an acceptance, a sort of
Daoist resignation to reality. For want of anything else to pray for, night after night they
pray for peace, but that was just wishful thinking. ...
But now the story seems to be coming to an end. Even those who attempt brazen acts
with a smiling façade are met with sober, straight faces: the time for equivocation was over.
The tide was receding and the rocks would soon be exposed. Counting on one’s fingers, one
finds that the Shanghai longtang have quite a few years on them—a few more and they’ll
be treading on thin ice. Going up again to the highest point in the city and looking down,
one sees that the crisscrossing longtang neighborhoods are already beginning to look
desolate. If these had been large imposing building[s], that desolation might be mitigated
by their grand proportions. But longtang buildings all have low walls and narrow courtyards,
filled with ordinary people carrying out their mundane tasks: could places like these be
thought of as desolate? Desolation takes on a comical aspect in such places, and that only
makes the people living there all the more dejected. Putting it in harsher terms: the whole
place bore a certain resemblance to a heap of rubble. With the leaves falling in early
winter, all we see are broken bricks and shattered tiles. Like an aging beauty who retains
her alluring profile, it can no longer bear scrutiny. Should you insist on searching for a trace
of her former charm—after all, not everything is erased—you would have to look for it in
the turn of the alley. Left here, right there, as if glancing coquettishly from side to side, but
the eyes that are so flirtatious are also getting on in years, they have lost their luster and are
incapable of grabbing hold of your attention. Soon, sleet began to come down—that was the
frigid past accumulated over generations—turning to water before it even hit the ground. ...
}}
[[1 The sentence, “But it was still there ... an empty
echo” (lines 13 through 15) contributes to a
central theme by
(1) connecting the people’s inner feelings and
outer lives
(2) suggesting a reason for the longtang’s crumbling
structure
(3) emphasizing the people’s quiet and calming
activities
(4) reflecting a shift in the longtang’s character
2 The author’s use of figurative language in lines 18
and 19 serves to emphasize a sense of
(1) community spirit (3) emotional burden
(2) societal unrest (4) material value
3 As used in line 19, the phrase “immaterial things”
means that the things are
(1) unimportant (3) frightening
(2) unforeseen (4) difficult
4 According to lines 31 through 39, a person living
in the longtang would most probably pray for
(1) protection from neighborhood conflict
(2) a quiet and uneventful life
(3) wealth and good fortune
(4) an end to the current war
5 Lines 40 through 53 suggest that the longtang
people
(1) make the best of their situation
(2) survive difficult challenges
(3) band together in times of need
(4) ignore impending danger
6 The comparison in lines 73 through 78 emphasizes
the longtang’s
(1) former vitality (3) past importance
(2) enduring strength (4) lasting beauty
7 The reference to the seasons in the final paragraph
conveys a sense of
(1) anticipation (3) hope
(2) loss (4) worthlessness
8 The author’s description of the people’s prayers
and the longtang stresses the
(1) futility of the people’s situation
(2) security of the people’s future
(3) importance of the people’s traditions
(4) complexity of the people’s needs
9 Overall, the author’s view of the people of the
longtang could best be described as
(1) intolerant (3) sympathetic
(2) objective (4) ambiguous]]
&&—Wang Anyi
excerpted and adapted from The Song of Everlasting Sorrow:
A Novel of Shanghai, 1995
Columbia University Press&&
##August 2014##

{{
...Brother, the business on which we are now come is to restore the friendship that has
existed between the United States and the Six Nations, agreeably to the direction of the
commissioner from the fifteen fires of the United States. He assured us that whensoever,
by any grievances, the chain of friendship should become rusty, we might have it brightened
by calling on you. We dispense with the usual formality of having your speech again read,
as we fully comprehended it yesterday, and it would therefore be useless to waste time in a
repetition of it.
Brother, yesterday you wiped the tears from our eyes, that we might see clearly; you
unstopped our ears that we might hear; and removed the obstructions from our throats that
we might speak distinctly. You offered to join with us in tearing up the largest pine-tree in
our forests, and under it to bury the tomahawk. We gladly join with you, brother, in this
work, and let us heap rocks and stones on the root of this tree that the tomahawk may never
again be found. ...
Brother, we observe that the men now in office are new men, and, we fear, not fully
informed of all that has befallen us. In 1791 a treaty was held by the commissioners of
Congress with us at Tioga Point, on a similar occasion. We have lost seven of our warriors,
murdered in cold blood by white men, since the conclusion of the war. We are tired of this
mighty grievance and wish some general arrangement to prevent it in future. The first of
these was murdered on the banks of the Ohio, near Fort Pitt. Shortly after two men
belonging to our first families were murdered at Pine Creek; then one at Fort Franklin;
another at Tioga Point; and now the two that occasion this visit, on the Big Beaver. These
last two had families. The one was a Seneca; the other a Tuscarora. Their families are now
destitute of support, and we think that the United States should do something toward their
support, as it is to the United States they owe the loss of their heads.
Brother, these offences are always committed in one place on the frontier of
Pennsylvania. In the Genesee country we live happy and no one molests us. I must
therefore beg that the President will exert all his influence with all officers, civil and
military, in that quarter, to remedy this grievance, and trust that he will thus prevent a
repetition of it and save our blood from being spilled in future.
Brother, let me call to mind the treaty between the United States and the Six Nations,
concluded at Canandaigua. At that treaty Colonel Pickering, who was commissioner on
behalf of the United States, agreed that the United States should pay to the Six Nations four
thousand five hundred dollars per annum, and that this should pass through the hands of
the superintendent of the United States, to be appointed for that purpose. This treaty was
made in the name of the President of the United States, who was then General Washington;
and, as he is now no more, perhaps the present President would wish to renew the treaty.
But if he should think the old one valid and is willing to let it remain in force we are also
willing. The sum above mentioned we wish to have part of in money, to expend in more
agricultural tools and in purchasing a team, as we have some horses that will do for the
purpose. We also wish to build a sawmill on the Buffalo creek. If the President, however,
thinks proper to have it continue as heretofore, we shall not be very uneasy. Whatever he
may do we agree to; we only suggest this for his consideration.
Brother, I hand you the above-mentioned treaty, made by Colonel Pickering, in the
name of General Washington, and the belt that accompanied it; as he is now dead we know
not if it is still valid. If not, we wish it renewed—if it is, we wish it copied on clean parchment.
Our money got loose in our trunk and tore it. We also show you the belt which is the path
of peace between our Six Nations and the United States. ...
Brother, the business that has caused this our long journey was occasioned by some of
your bad men; the expense of it has been heavy on us. We beg that as so great a breach has
been made on your part, the President will judge it proper that the United States should
bear our expenses to and from home and whilst here.
Brother, three horses belonging to the Tuscarora Nation were killed by some men under
the command of Major Rivardi, on the plains of Niagara. They have made application to the
superintendent and to Major Rivardi, but get no redress. You make us pay for our breaches
of the peace, why should you not pay also? A white man has told us the horses were killed
by Major Rivardi’s orders, who said they should not be permitted to come there, although
it was an open common on which they were killed. Mr. Chapin has the papers respecting
these horses, which we request you to take into consideration.}}
[[15 The speaker’s use of symbolism in lines 10 and 11
serves to represent the
(1) achievement of peace
(2) destruction of nature
(3) loss of cultural identity
(4) arrival of new leadership
16 The details in lines 16 and 17 contribute to the
speaker’s purpose by
(1) presenting a resolution to the conflict
(2) indicating the reason for the meeting
(3) emphasizing the need for caution
(4) explaining the terms of the treaty
17 Lines 22 through 24 establish a
(1) contrast between poverty and wealth
(2) comparison between family and government
(3) cause/effect relationship between power and
crime
(4) connection between responsibility and
accountability
18 In the speech, the Six Nations’ uncertainty
regarding the status of the Canandaigua Treaty in
lines 30 and 31 is based on the
(1) loss of the Cayuga reservation
(2) conclusion of a major conflict
(3) recent changes in United States leadership
(4) new hostilities along the frontier
19 Which statement best clarifies the sentence in
lines 8 through 10?
(1) “We dispense with the usual formality of
having your speech again read” (line 5)
(2) “In the Genesee country we live happy and
no one molests us” (line 26)
(3) “But if he should think the old one valid ...
we are also willing” (lines 37 and 38)
(4) “If the President ... thinks proper to have it
continue as heretofore, we shall not be very
uneasy” (lines 40 and 41)
20 The speaker’s attitude in lines 37 through 42 can
best be described as
(1) uncertain (3) sarcastic
(2) compassionate (4) cooperative
21 The speaker’s request in lines 48 through 51
serves to emphasize the Six Nations’
(1) sense of growing confinement
(2) adoption of traditional lifestyle
(3) rejection of political influence
(4) desire for fair treatment
22 Which words from the speech help the reader
understand the meaning of “redress” as used in
line 54?
(1) “judge it proper” (line 50)
(2) “They have made application” (line 53)
(3) “why should you not pay also” (line 55)
(4) “they should not be permitted to come”
(line 56)
23 Which purpose of the treaty between the United
States and the Six Nations is not referenced in
this 1801 speech?
(1) the need to prevent unlawful acts
(2) the preservation of the written agreement
(3) the method of fiscal payments
(4) the protection of Iroquois lands
24 The speaker repeats the word “Brother” throughout
the speech in order to
(1) convey a sense of superiority
(2) establish a feeling of alliance
(3) emphasize a common greeting
(4) suggest a shared history]]
&&—Red Jacket
excerpted from Orations from Homer to William McKinley,
Vol. VII, 1902
P.F. Collier and Son&&
##August 2014##

{{
Nine years ago Pyotr Sergeyitch, the deputy prosecutor, and I were riding towards
evening in haymaking time to fetch the letters from the station.
The weather was magnificent, but on our way back we heard a peal of thunder, and saw
an angry black storm-cloud which was coming straight towards us. The storm-cloud was
approaching us and we were approaching it. …
Then the first wave raced through the rye and a field of oats, there was a gust of wind,
and the dust flew round and round in the air. Pyotr Sergeyitch laughed and spurred on his horse.
“It’s fine!” he cried, “it’s splendid!”
Infected by his gaiety, I too began laughing at the thought that in a minute I should be
drenched to the skin and might be struck by lightning.
Riding swiftly in a hurricane when one is breathless with the wind, and feels like a bird,
thrills one and puts one’s heart in a flutter. By the time we rode into our courtyard the wind
had gone down, and big drops of rain were pattering on the grass and on the roofs. There
was not a soul near the stable. …
“What a crash!” said Pyotr Sergeyitch, coming up to me after a very loud rolling peal of
thunder when it seemed as though the sky were split in two. “What do you say to that?”
He stood beside me in the doorway and, still breathless from his rapid ride, looked at
me. I could see that he was admiring me.
“Natalya Vladimirovna,” he said, “I would give anything only to stay here a little longer
and look at you. You are lovely to-day.”
His eyes looked at me with delight and supplication, his face was pale. On his beard
and moustache were glittering raindrops, and they, too, seemed to be looking at me
with love.
“I love you,” he said. “I love you, and I am happy at seeing you. I know you cannot be
my wife, but I want nothing, I ask nothing; only know that I love you. Be silent, do not
answer me, take no notice of it, but only know that you are dear to me and let me look at
you.” …
“You say nothing, and that is splendid,” said Pyotr Sergeyitch. “Go on being silent.”
I felt happy. I laughed with delight and ran through the drenching rain to the house;
he laughed too, and, leaping as he went, ran after me.
Both drenched, panting, noisily clattering up the stairs like children, we dashed into the
room. My father and brother, who were not used to seeing me laughing and lighthearted,
looked at me in surprise and began laughing too. …
When I went to bed I lighted a candle and threw my window wide open, and an
undefined feeling took possession of my soul. I remembered that I was free and healthy,
that I had rank and wealth, that I was beloved; above all, that I had rank and wealth, rank
and wealth, my God! how nice that was!… Then, huddling up in bed at a touch of cold
which reached me from the garden with the dew, I tried to discover whether I loved Pyotr
Sergeyitch or not,… and fell asleep unable to reach any conclusion. …
And what happened afterwards? Why—nothing. In the winter when we lived in town
Pyotr Sergeyitch came to see us from time to time. Country acquaintances are charming
only in the country and in summer; in the town and in winter they lose their charm. When
you pour out tea for them in the town it seems as though they are wearing other people’s
coats, and as though they stirred their tea too long. In the town, too, Pyotr Sergeyitch spoke
sometimes of love, but the effect was not at all the same as in the country. In the town we
were more vividly conscious of the wall that stood between us: I had rank and wealth, while
he was poor, and he was not even a nobleman, but only the son of a deacon and a deputy
public prosecutor; we both of us—I through my youth and he for some unknown reason—
thought of that wall as very high and thick, and when he was with us in the town he would
criticize aristocratic society with a forced smile, and maintain a sullen silence when there
was anyone else in the drawing-room. There is no wall that cannot be broken through, but
the heroes of the modern romance, so far as I know them, are too timid, spiritless, lazy, and
oversensitive, and are too ready to resign themselves to the thought that they are doomed
to failure, that personal life has disappointed them; instead of struggling they merely
criticize, calling the world vulgar and forgetting that their criticism passes little by little into
vulgarity.
I was loved, happiness was not far away, and seemed to be almost touching me; I went
on living in careless ease without trying to understand myself, not knowing what I expected
or what I wanted from life, and time went on and on.… People passed by me with their
love, bright days and warm nights flashed by, the nightingales sang, the hay smelt fragrant,
and all this, sweet and overwhelming in remembrance, passed with me as with everyone
rapidly, leaving no trace, was not prized, and vanished like mist.… Where is it all?
My father is dead, I have grown older; everything that delighted me, caressed me, gave me
hope—the patter of the rain, the rolling of the thunder, thoughts of happiness, talk of
love—all that has become nothing but a memory, and I see before me a flat desert distance;
on the plain not one living soul, and out there on the horizon it is dark and terrible. …
A ring at the bell.… It is Pyotr Sergeyitch. When in the winter I see the trees and
remember how green they were for me in the summer I whisper:
“Oh, my darlings!”
And when I see people with whom I spent my spring-time, I feel sorrowful and warm
and whisper the same thing. …
Not knowing what to say I ask him:
“Well, what have you to tell me?”
“Nothing,” he answers. …
I thought of the past, and all at once my shoulders began quivering, my head dropped,
and I began weeping bitterly. I felt unbearably sorry for myself and for this man, and
passionately longed for what had passed away and what life refused us now. And now I did
not think about rank and wealth.
I broke into loud sobs, pressing my temples, and muttered:
“My God! my God! my life is wasted!”
And he sat and was silent, and did not say to me: “Don’t weep.” He understood that I
must weep, and that the time for this had come. …}}
&&—Anton Chekhov
excerpted from “A Lady’s Story”
The Schoolmistress and Other Stories, 1920
translated by Constance Garnett
Chatto & Windus&&
[[1 The primary function of lines 1 and 2 is to
(1) establish a setting of the story
(2) present the central idea of the story
(3) provide analysis of new characters
(4) create a mysterious atmosphere
2 Pyotr’s reaction to the storm in lines 7 and 8
reflects his
(1) calm manner (3) excessive pride
(2) unworthy character (4) carefree attitude
3 What is revealed about the narrator in lines 32
and 33?
(1) She rarely reveals her intelligence.
(2) She is usually a very serious person.
(3) She does not want to alarm her father.
(4) She is unwilling to act like an adult.
4 The reference to Pyotr’s “forced smile” and
“sullen silence” in line 50 reveals his
(1) contempt for status
(2) indifference to wealth
(3) fear of commitment
(4) lack of confidence
5 Lines 59 through 62 contribute to a central idea
in the text by depicting the
(1) passing of youth
(2) uncertainty of love
(3) futility of hope
(4) intolerance of society
6 In line 65, the phrase “flat desert distance” is
used by the narrator to describe her
(1) physical location (3) foreseeable future
(2) social mobility (4) unfeeling nature
7 Why does Natalya “not think about rank and
wealth” in line 78?
(1) She has lost her father.
(2) She has wasted her inheritance.
(3) She has followed her conviction.
(4) She has realized her mistake.
8 Lines 81 and 82 develop a central idea by
depicting a
(1) sense of loss
(2) lack of comfort
(3) desire for memories
(4) longing for attention
9 The author structures the text around references to
(1) similar locations
(2) changing seasons
(3) family interactions
(4) societal interferences]]
##January 2015##
{{A few years ago the City Council of Monza, Italy, barred pet owners from keeping
goldfish in curved fishbowls. The sponsors of the measure explained that it is cruel to keep
a fish in a bowl because the curved sides give the fish a distorted view of reality. Aside from
the measure’s significance to the poor goldfish, the story raises an interesting philosophical
question: How do we know that the reality we perceive is true?
The goldfish is seeing a version of reality that is different from ours, but can we be sure
it is any less real? For all we know, we, too, may spend our entire lives staring out at the
world through a distorting lens.
In physics, the question is not academic. Indeed, physicists and cosmologists are
finding themselves in a similar predicament to the goldfish’s. For decades we have strived
to come up with an ultimate theory of everything—one complete and consistent set of
fundamental laws of nature that explain every aspect of reality. It now appears that this
quest may yield not a single theory but a family of interconnected theories, each describing
its own version of reality, as if it viewed the universe through its own fishbowl.
This notion may be difficult for many people, including some working scientists, to
accept. Most people believe that there is an objective reality out there and that our senses
and our science directly convey information about the material world. Classical science is
based on the belief that an external world exists whose properties are definite and inde-
pendent of the observer who perceives them. In philosophy, that belief is called realism. …
The idea of alternative realities is a mainstay of today’s popular culture. For example,
in the science-fiction film The Matrix the human race is unknowingly living in a simulated
virtual reality created by intelligent computers to keep them pacified and content while the
computers suck their bioelectrical energy (whatever that is). How do we know we are not
just computer-generated characters living in a Matrix-like world? If we lived in a synthetic,
imaginary world, events would not necessarily have any logic or consistency or obey any
laws. The aliens in control might find it more interesting or amusing to see our reactions,
for example, if everyone in the world suddenly decided that chocolate was repulsive or that
war was not an option, but that has never happened. If the aliens did enforce consistent
laws, we would have no way to tell that another reality stood behind the simulated one. It
is easy to call the world the aliens live in the “real” one and the computer-generated world
a false one. But if—like us—the beings in the simulated world could not gaze into their
universe from the outside, they would have no reason to doubt their own pictures of reality.
The goldfish are in a similar situation. Their view is not the same as ours from outside
their curved bowl, but they could still formulate scientific laws governing the motion of the
objects they observe on the outside. For instance, because light bends as it travels from air
to water, a freely moving object that we would observe to move in a straight line would be
observed by the goldfish to move along a curved path. The goldfish could formulate
scientific laws from their distorted frame of reference that would always hold true and that
would enable them to make predictions about the future motion of objects outside the
bowl. Their laws would be more complicated than the laws in our frame, but simplicity is a
matter of taste. If the goldfish formulated such a theory, we would have to admit the
goldfish’s view as a valid picture of reality. …
In the quest to discover the ultimate laws of physics, no approach has raised higher
hopes—or more controversy—than string theory. String theory was first proposed in the
1970s as an attempt to unify all the forces of nature into one coherent framework and, 
in particular, to bring the force of gravity into the domain of quantum physics. By the early
1990s, however, physicists discovered that string theory suffers from an awkward issue:
there are five different string theories. For those advocating that string theory was the
unique theory of everything, this was quite an embarrassment. In the mid-1990s
researchers started discovering that these different theories—and yet another theory called
supergravity—actually describe the same phenomena, giving them some hope that they
would amount eventually to a unified theory. The theories are indeed related by what
physicists call dualities, which are a kind of mathematical dictionaries for translating
concepts back and forth. But, alas, each theory is a good description of phenomena only
under a certain range of conditions—for example at low energies. None can describe every
aspect of the universe.
String theorists are now convinced that the five different string theories are just
different approximations to a more fundamental theory called M-theory. (No one seems to
know what the “M” stands for. It may be “master,” “miracle” or “mystery,” or all three.)
People are still trying to decipher the nature of M-theory, but it seems that the traditional
expectation of a single theory of nature may be untenable and that to describe the universe
we must employ different theories in different situations. Thus, M-theory is not a theory in
the usual sense but a network of theories. It is a bit like a map. To faithfully represent the
entire Earth on a flat surface, one has to use a collection of maps, each of which covers
a limited region. The maps overlap one another, and where they do, they show the same
landscape. Similarly, the different theories in the M-theory family may look very different,
but they can all be regarded as versions of the same underlying theory, and they all predict
the same phenomena where they overlap, but none works well in all situations.
Whenever we develop a model of the world and find it to be successful, we tend to
attribute to the model the quality of reality or absolute truth. But M-theory, like the
goldfish example, shows that the same physical situation can be modeled in different ways,
each employing different fundamental elements and concepts. It might be that to describe
the universe we have to employ different theories in different situations. Each theory may
have its own version of reality, but according to model-dependent realism, that diversity is
acceptable, and none of the versions can be said to be more real than any other. It is not the
physicist’s traditional expectation for a theory of nature, nor does it correspond to our
everyday idea of reality. But it might be the way of the universe.}}
&&—Stephen Hawking and Leonard Mlodinow
excerpted from “The (Elusive) Theory of Everything”
Scientific American, October 2010&&
[[15 The authors’ anecdote about pet owners in Monza,
Italy, serves to introduce a
(1) proof of a universal world view
(2) measure that is objectionable to scientists
(3) central question about the way we see
(4) philosophical question about what we value
16 The primary purpose of lines 9 through 14 is to
clarify the
(1) need for a single theory
(2) role of the senses in understanding
(3) possibility of other life in the universe
(4) origin of alternative theories
17 How do lines 17 through 19 develop a claim?
(1) by providing details about a philosophical
challenge faced by scientists
(2) by showing how scientists should handle
alternate realities
(3) by arguing for an approach that scientists
have always followed
(4) by explaining how scientists should view a
philosophical approach
18 The reference to The Matrix in lines 20 through
24 is used to emphasize the questioning of our
(1) virtues (3) education
(2) perception (4) ideals
19 The references to goldfish in lines 33 through 42
contribute to the authors’ purpose by suggesting
that
(1) people’s theories are influenced by their
viewpoints
(2) nature’s mysteries are best left undiscovered
(3) reality can only be determined by an outside
perspective
(4) light must be viewed under similar
circumstances
20 As used in line 45 of the text, what does the word
“coherent” mean?
(1) balanced (3) popular
(2) indisputable (4) understandable
21 The authors’ reference to “a collection of maps”
(line 64) is used to help clarify
(1) a complex theory
(2) a historical concept
(3) the representation of space
(4) the limitations of previous theories
22 The function of lines 73 through 77 is to
(1) argue for a specific theory
(2) suggest that theories relate to expectations
(3) describe the way differing theories should
co-exist
(4) evaluate theories based on specific needs
23 With which statement would the authors most
likely agree?
(1) The perception of the universe can never be
questioned.
(2) There is a single, agreed upon theory of reality.
(3) There are multiple realities that are possible
to prove.
(4) The understanding of the universe continues
to change.
24 The authors attempt to engage the audience
through the use of
(1) absolute statements
(2) real world examples
(3) detailed descriptions
(4) simple questions]]
##January 2015##

{{It was generally agreed in New York that the Countess Olenska had “lost her looks.”
She had appeared there first, in Newland Archer’s boyhood, as a brilliantly pretty little
girl of nine or ten, of whom people said that she “ought to be painted.” Her parents had
been continental wanderers, and after a roaming babyhood she had lost them both, and
been taken in charge by her aunt, Medora Manson, also a wanderer, who was herself
returning to New York to “settle down.” …
Every one was disposed to be kind to little Ellen Mingott, though her dusky red cheeks
and tight curls gave her an air of gaiety that seemed unsuitable in a child who should still
have been in black for her parents. It was one of the misguided Medora’s many peculiarities
to flout the unalterable rules that regulated American mourning, and when she stepped
from the steamer her family were scandalised to see that the crape veil she wore for her
own brother was seven inches shorter than those of her sisters-in-law, while little Ellen was
in crimson merino and amber beads, like a gipsy foundling.
But New York had so long resigned itself to Medora that only a few old ladies shook
their heads over Ellen’s gaudy clothes, while her other relations fell under the charm of
her high colour and high spirits. She was a fearless and familiar little thing, who asked
disconcerting questions, made precocious comments, and possessed outlandish arts, such as
dancing a Spanish shawl dance and singing Neapolitan love-songs to a guitar. Under the
direction of her aunt (whose real name was Mrs. Thorley Chivers, but who, having received
a Papal title, had resumed her first husband’s patronymic, and called herself the
Marchioness Manson, because in Italy she could turn it into Manzoni) the little girl received
an expensive but incoherent education, which included “drawing from the model,” a thing
never dreamed of before, and playing the piano in quintets with professional musicians. …
These things passed through Newland Archer’s mind a week later as he watched
the Countess Olenska enter the van der Luyden drawing-room on the evening of the
momentous dinner. The occasion was a solemn one, and he wondered a little nervously how
she would carry it off. She came rather late, one hand still ungloved, and fastening a
bracelet about her wrist; yet she entered without any appearance of haste or embarrassment
the drawing-room in which New York’s most chosen company was somewhat awfully
assembled.
In the middle of the room she paused, looking about her with a grave mouth and
smiling eyes; and in that instant Newland Archer rejected the general verdict on her looks.
It was true that her early radiance was gone. The red cheeks had paled; she was thin, worn,
a little older-looking than her age, which must have been nearly thirty. But there was about
her the mysterious authority of beauty, a sureness in the carriage of the head, the movement
of the eyes, which, without being in the least theatrical, struck him as highly trained and full
of a conscious power. At the same time she was simpler in manner than most of the ladies
present, and many people (as he heard afterward from Janey) were disappointed that
her appearance was not more “stylish” — for stylishness was what New York most valued.
It was, perhaps, Archer reflected, because her early vivacity had disappeared; because she
was so quiet—quiet in her movements, her voice, and the tones of her low-pitched voice.
New York had expected something a good deal more resonant in a young woman with such
a history.
The dinner was a somewhat formidable business. Dining with the van der Luydens was
at best no light matter, and dining there with a Duke who was their cousin was almost
a religious solemnity. It pleased Archer to think that only an old New Yorker could perceive
the shade of difference (to New York) between being merely a Duke and being the van der
Luydens’ Duke. New York took stray noblemen calmly, and even (except in the Struthers
set) with a certain distrustful hauteur; but when they presented such credentials as these
they were received with an old-fashioned cordiality that they would have been greatly
mistaken in ascribing solely to their standing in Debrett. It was for just such distinctions
that the young man cherished his old New York even while he smiled at it. …
The Countess Olenska was the only young woman at the dinner; yet, as Archer scanned
the smooth plump elderly faces between their diamond necklaces and towering ostrich
feathers, they struck him as curiously immature compared with hers. It frightened him to
think what must have gone to the making of her eyes.
The Duke of St. Austrey, who sat at his hostess’s right, was naturally the chief figure of
the evening. But if the Countess Olenska was less conspicuous than had been hoped, the
Duke was almost invisible. Being a well-bred man he had not (like another recent ducal
visitor) come to the dinner in a shooting-jacket; but his evening clothes were so shabby and
baggy, and he wore them with such an air of their being homespun, that (with his stooping
way of sitting, and the vast beard spreading over his shirt-front) he hardly gave the
appearance of being in dinner attire. He was short, round-shouldered, sunburnt, with
a thick nose, small eyes and a sociable smile; but he seldom spoke, and when he did it was
in such low tones that, despite the frequent silences of expectation about the table,
his remarks were lost to all but his neighbours.
When the men joined the ladies after dinner the Duke went straight up to the Countess
Olenska, and they sat down in a corner and plunged into animated talk. Neither seemed
aware that the Duke should first have paid his respects to Mrs. Lovell Mingott and
Mrs. Headly Chivers, and the Countess have conversed with that amiable hypochondriac,
Mr. Urban Dagonet of Washington Square, who, in order to have the pleasure of meeting
her, had broken through his fixed rule of not dining out between January and April. The two
chatted together for nearly twenty minutes; then the Countess rose and, walking alone
across the wide drawing-room, sat down at Newland Archer’s side.
It was not the custom in New York drawing-rooms for a lady to get up and walk away
from one gentleman in order to seek the company of another. Etiquette required that
she should wait, immovable as an idol, while the men who wished to converse with her 
succeeded each other at her side. But the Countess was apparently unaware of having
broken any rule; she sat at perfect ease in a corner of the sofa beside Archer, and looked at
him with the kindest eyes. …
}}
&&— Edith Wharton
excerpted from The Age of Innocence, 1920
Windsor Editions, by arrangement with D. Appleton and Company&&
[[1 In the context of the entire passage, the tone
established by line 1 can best be described as
(1) indifferent (3) compassionate
(2) judgmental (4) admiring
2 The use of flashback in lines 2 through 23 serves to
(1) relate Countess Olenska’s history
(2) describe Newland Archer’s ancestry
(3) explain Medora Manson’s talents
(4) identify Thorley Chivers’s perspective
3 The meaning of “flout” as used in line 10 is clarified
by the word
(1) “wanderer” (line 5)
(2) “dusky” (line 7)
(3) “scandalised” (line 11)
(4) “relations” (line 15)
4 The description of Ellen in lines 14 through 23
conveys that people viewed her as
(1) unique (3) fashionable
(2) simple (4) unhealthy
5 The words “disconcerting” (line 17) and
“precocious” (line 17) imply that, as a child, the
Countess Olenska was
(1) impatient (3) timid
(2) untamed (4) hesitant
6 Medora Manson, as described in the passage, can
best be characterized as
(1) cautious (3) intellectual
(2) overprotective (4) unconventional
7 Based on the text, the reader can infer that
Newland Archer is
(1) oblivious to the party’s guests
(2) intimidated by the Duke’s presence
(3) intrigued by the Countess Olenska
(4) resentful toward the wealthy class
8 The Duke and the Countess Olenska are similar
in that they are both
(1) ignored by almost everyone at dinner
(2) interested in marriage opportunities
(3) unconcerned with social expectations
(4) considered to be of lesser nobility
9 What effect is created by viewing the Countess at
the party through Archer’s eyes?
(1) It emphasizes a distinction between the
Countess and the guests.
(2) It reveals a conflict between the Countess
and Medora.
(3) It clarifies a growing relationship between
the Countess and the Duke.
(4) It enhances the differences between the
Countess and Archer.
10 The fact that the Countess leaves one gentleman
to speak with another (lines 72 through 74) shows
that she
(1) has an unnatural need for the Duke’s
attention
(2) is concerned about her reputation at the
party
(3) is actively avoiding Newland Archer’s
conversation
(4) has little regard for customs associated with
gender]]
##June 2015##

{{
…Mr. President, it is natural to man to indulge in the illusions of hope. We [American
colonists] are apt to shut our eyes against a painful truth, and listen to the song of that syren
[siren], till she seduces our judgments. Is it the part of wise men, engaged in a great and
arduous struggle for liberty? Are we disposed to be of the number of those, who having
eyes, see not, and having ears, hear not the things which so nearly concern our temporal
salvation? For my part, whatever anguish of spirit it might cost, I am willing to know the
whole truth; to know the worst, and to provide for it. I have but one lamp by which my feet
are guided, and that is the lamp of experience. I know of no way of judging of the future,
but by the past; and, judging by the past, I wish to know what there has been in the
conduct of the British ministry for the last ten years, to justify those hopes with which
gentlemen have been pleased to solace themselves and the house? Is it that insidious smile
with which our petition has been lately received? Trust it not, sir, it will prove a snare
to your feet. Suffer not yourselves to be betrayed with a kiss. Ask yourselves how this
gracious reception of our petition, comports with those warlike preparations which cover
our waters and darken our land? Are fleets and armies necessary to a work of love and
reconciliation? Have we shown ourselves so unwilling to be reconciled, that force must be
called in to win back our love? Let us not deceive ourselves, sir. These are the implements
of war and subjugation—the last arguments to which kings resort. I ask gentlemen,
sir, what means this martial array, if its purpose be not to force us to submission?
Can gentlemen assign any other possible motive for it? Has Great Britain any enemy in this
quarter of the world, to call for all this accumulation of navies and armies? No, sir, she has
none: they are meant for us: they can be meant for no other purpose—they are sent over to
bind and rivet upon us those chains, which the British ministry have been so long forging.
And what have we to oppose to them? Shall we try argument? Sir, we have been trying that
for the last ten years. Have we any thing new to offer upon the subject? Nothing. We have
held the subject up in every light of which it is capable; but it has been all in vain. Shall we
resort to entreaty and humble supplication? What terms shall we find, which have not been
already exhausted? Let us not, I beseech you, sir, deceive ourselves longer. Sir, we have
done every thing that could be done, to avert the storm which is now coming on. We have
petitioned—we have remonstrated we have supplicated—we have prostrated ourselves
before the throne, and have implored its interposition to arrest the tyrannical hands of
the ministry and parliament. Our petitions have been slighted; our remonstrances have
produced additional violence and insult; our supplications have been disregarded; and we
have been spurned, with contempt, from the foot of the throne.
In vain, after these things, may we indulge the fond hope of peace and reconciliation.
There is no longer any room for hope. If we wish to be free—if we mean to preserve
inviolate those inestimable privileges for which we have been so long contending—if we
mean not basely to abandon the noble struggle in which we have been so long engaged, and
which we have pledged ourselves never to abandon, until the glorious object of our contest
shall be obtained—we must fight!—I repeat it, sir, we must fight—An appeal to arms and
to the God of Hosts, is all that is left us!
They tell us, sir, that we are weak—unable to cope with so formidable an adversary.
But when shall we be stronger? Will it be the next week, or the next year? Will it be when
we are totally disarmed; and when a British guard shall be stationed in our House? Shall
we gather strength by irresolution and inaction? Shall we acquire the means of effectual
resistance, by lying supinely on our backs, and hugging the delusive phantom of hope,
until our enemies shall have bound us, hand and foot? Sir, we are not weak, if we make
a proper use of those means which the God of nature hath placed in our power—three
millions of people, armed in the holy cause of Liberty, and in such a country as that which
we possess; are invincible by any force which our enemy can send against us.
Sir, we shall not fight our battles alone. There is a just God, who presides over the
destinies of nations, and will raise up friends to fight our battles for us. The battle, sir, is not
to the strong alone; it is to the vigilant, the active, the brave. Besides, sir, we have now no
election. If we were base enough to desire it, it is now too late to retire from the contest.
There is no retreat, but in submission and slavery. Our chains are forged:—their clanking
may be heard on the plains of Boston! The war is inevitable—and let it come!! I repeat it,
sir, let it come!!!
It is in vain, sir, to extenuate the matter. Gentlemen may cry, peace, peace—but there
is no peace! The war is actually begun! The next gale that sweeps from the north, will bring
to our ears the clash of resounding arms! Our brethren are already in the field! Why stand
we here idle? What is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life so dear, or
peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains, and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty
God!—I know not what course others may take; but as for me, GIVE ME LIBERTY, OR
GIVE ME DEATH!
}}
&&—Patrick Henry
excerpted and adapted from The Mental Guide, Being a Compend of the
First Principles of Metaphysics, and a System of Attaining an Easy
and Correct Mode of Thought and Style in Composition by Transcription;
Predicated on the Analysis of the Human Mind, 1828
Marsh & Capen, and Richardson & Lord&&
[[15 Lines 1 through 3 help to frame the speaker’s
argument by
(1) addressing human frailties
(2) exposing outside criticisms
(3) explaining common misconceptions
(4) proposing certain compromises
16 Lines 6 and 7 help to express the speaker’s desire
to
(1) locate the necessary resources
(2) rely on outside assistance
(3) insist on short-term solutions
(4) confront the unpleasant reality
17 The major effect of the figurative language used in
lines 22 and 23 (“they are sent … so long forging”)
is to emphasize the
(1) loyalty of subjects
(2) respect for authority
(3) penalty for treason
(4) loss of freedom
18 The overall purpose of the first paragraph (lines 1
through 34) is to
(1) explain the role of government
(2) question the importance of reason
(3) analyze the existing situation
(4) expose the failings of law
19 In the context of the speech, the purpose of the
statement, “They tell us, sir, that we are weak—
unable to cope with so formidable an adversary”
(line 42) is to
(1) introduce a counterclaim
(2) address a financial crisis
(3) explain a confusing concept
(4) defend a known fact
20 Which phrase clarifies the speaker’s view of
Britain’s intentions for the colonies?
(1) “gracious reception” (line 14)
(2) “war and subjugation” (line 18)
(3) “inestimable privileges” (line 37)
(4) “irresolution and inaction” (line 45)
21 The purpose of the rhetorical questions in lines 43
through 47 is to emphasize the consequence of
(1) selfishness (3) greed
(2) arrogance (4) indecision
22 What is the main message delivered by the
speaker to his audience in lines 47 through 50?
(1) If we fight together we will win.
(2) The state will supply us with arms.
(3) The enemy is weaker than first thought.
(4) We must outlaw slavery forever.
23 As used in line 54 the word “election” most nearly
means
(1) support (3) enemies
(2) choice (4) politics
24 The speaker’s overall tone may best be described
as
(1) contented (3) passionate
(2) frightened (4) satirical]]
##June 2015##

{{…I assured his honor that law was a science, in which I had not much conversed,
further than by employing advocates in vain, upon some injustice that had been done me:
however, I would give him all the satisfaction I was able.
I said there was a society of men among us, bred up from their youth in the art of
proving, by words multiplied for the purpose, that white is black, and black is white,
according as they are paid. To this society all the rest of the people are slaves. For example,
if my neighbor has a mind to my cow, he has a lawyer to prove that he ought to have my cow
from me. I must then hire another to defend my right, it being against all rules of law that
any man should be allowed to speak for himself. “Now, in this case, I, who am the right owner,
lie under two great disadvantages: first, my lawyer, being practiced almost from his cradle
in defending falsehood, is quite out of his element when he would be an advocate for
justice, which is an unnatural office he always attempts with great awkwardness, if not with
ill-will. The second disadvantage is, that my lawyer must proceed with great caution, or else
he will be reprimanded by the judges, and abhorred by his brethren, as one that would
lessen the practice of the law. And therefore I have but two methods to preserve my cow.
The first is, to gain over my adversary’s lawyer with a double fee, who will then betray
his client by insinuating that he has justice on his side. The second way is for my lawyer
to make my cause appear as unjust as he can, by allowing the cow to belong to my adversary;
and this, if it be skilfully done, will certainly bespeak the favor of the bench. Now your
honor is to know that these judges are persons appointed to decide all controversies of
property as well as for the trial of criminals, and picked out from the most dexterous
lawyers, who have grown old or lazy; and having been biased all their lives against truth and
equity, lie under such a fatal necessity of favoring fraud, perjury, and oppression, that I have
known some of them refuse a large bribe from the side where justice lay, rather than injure
the faculty by doing anything unbecoming their nature or their office.
“It is a maxim among these lawyers, that whatever has been done before may legally be
done again; and therefore they take special care to record all the decisions formerly made
against common justice and the general reason of mankind. These, under the name of
precedents, they produce as authorities to justify the most iniquitous opinions; and the
judges never fail of directing accordingly.
“In pleading, they studiously avoid entering into the merits of the cause; but are loud,
violent, and tedious in dwelling upon all circumstances which are not to the purpose. For
instance, in the case already mentioned, they never desire to know what claim or title my
adversary has to my cow, but whether the said cow were red or black, her horns long or
short; whether the field I graze her in be round or square; whether she was milked at home
or abroad; what diseases she is subject to, and the like; after which they consult precedents,
adjourn the case from time to time, and in ten, twenty, or thirty years come to an issue.
“It is likewise to be observed that this society has a peculiar cant and jargon of their
own that no other mortal can understand, and wherein all their laws are written, which they
take special care to multiply; whereby they have wholly confounded the very essence
of truth and falsehood, of right and wrong; so that it will take thirty years to decide whether
the field left me by my ancestors for six generations belongs to me or to a stranger
three hundred miles off.
“In the trial of persons accused for crimes against the state, the method is much more
short and commendable: the judge first sends to sound the disposition of those in power,
after which he can easily hang or save a criminal, strictly preserving all due forms of law.”
Here my master, interposing, said it was a pity that creatures endowed with such
prodigious abilities of mind as these lawyers, by the description I gave of them, must
certainly be, were not rather encouraged to be instructors of others in wisdom and
knowledge. In answer to which I assured his honor that in all points out of their own trade
they were usually the most ignorant and stupid generation among us; the most despicable
in common conversation, avowed enemies to all knowledge and learning, and equally
disposed to pervert the general reason of mankind in every other subject of discourse as in
that of their own profession. }}
&&—Jonathan Swift
excerpted from The Works of Jonathan Swift:
Gulliver’s Travels, 1932
Black’s Readers Service Company
First published 1726 by Ben J. Motte&&
[[1 The narrator introduces the hypothetical dispute
over a cow (lines 6 through 9) in order to show the
(1) illogical nature of the legal system
(2) importance of having many lawyers
(3) ignorance of the common man
(4) reasonable traditions of dispute resolution
2 Lines 8 and 9 convey a tone of
(1) seriousness (3) empathy
(2) sarcasm (4) reluctance
3 In lines 19 through 25, the narrator observes that
the practices of judges are
(1) respected (3) indifferent
(2) constructive (4) insincere
4 As used in line 26, the word “maxim” most nearly
means
(1) rule (3) secret
(2) question (4) conflict
5 The details presented in lines 32 through 37
contribute to a central idea by
(1) acknowledging a cow’s value
(2) stressing the legal system’s irrelevance
(3) validating the narrator’s memory
(4) recognizing the legal system’s history
6 In lines 38 through 43, the narrator describes
lawyers’ “peculiar cant and jargon” as being
(1) primarily ceremonial
(2) deceptively complex
(3) deliberately insulting
(4) consistently objective
7 Lines 44 through 46 suggest that, in crimes against
the state, judges are inclined to
(1) rely on common sense
(2) follow the accepted precedent
(3) impose a lengthy sentence
(4) submit to higher authority
8 The text supports the narrator’s point of view by
(1) referencing historical examples
(2) using concrete evidence
(3) employing exaggerated descriptions
(4) describing fantastic experiences
9 The text as a whole supports the narrator’s opinion
that lawyers and judges are
(1) stubborn (3) misunderstood
(2) corrupt (4) inexperienced]]
##August 2015##

{{The morning chill carried that clean-sheet crispness; that cleansing sort of air. Actually,
for the tip of Long Island in early December, this weather was a little late in coming. But
walking from our house to the shore of the bay, the new crystal air made me finally look
ahead toward winter and turn my back to what had been a spectacular, lingering fall.
Every autumn here witnesses two great migrations: one axiomatic and one nearly
unknown. Everybody knows birds fly south for the winter. Here, the marshes and barrier
islands are interstate arteries for heavy traffic of songbirds, waterfowl, hawks and others.
But except for people who fish, almost no one realizes the greater migration begins just
beyond the beach.
This year, as usual, swarms of fish had arrived from New England in the last few weeks
and departed down the coast in great migrating waves. They included millions and millions
of anchovies and menhaden, pursued to the surface by armies of bluefish, striped bass,
little tuna. Along the seafloor battalions of summer flounder, black sea bass, tautog, porgies
and others moved to deeper grounds. Offshore, beyond sight of land on the rolling blue
prairies of the sea, sharks and tunas passed like herds on the Serengeti (though now, like
those herds, much diminished). Herring and mackerel had arrived mid-November with
dolphins on their tails, and the remaining schools of striped bass, fattening for their long run
to winter grounds, gobbled them greedily. Even now, into December, a few boats were still
hunting bass. But we had caught enough, our freezer was stocked for winter and our smoker
racks were busy, and we’d just hauled the boat.
Patricia and I put our footsteps to the gravelly beach and walked to the inlet to see
who’d recently arrived. Bonaparte’s gulls, a few long-tailed ducks, some black scoters and in
the distance the feathered missiles called gannets were sending geysers skyward as a flock
poured into a herring school. To me, this seasonal sense of place in the path of migrations,
this finger on the pulse of the planet, is the purest joy.
We were just rounding the inlet entrance when, among the shells and tide-wrack, my gaze
caught something so unexpected — here, and in this near-frost — it seemed improbable as
a fallen angel: a sea turtle.
It was a baby, with a platter-sized shell. Species: Kemp’s ridley, most endangered of all
Atlantic turtles. Stunned by the boreal air and 49-degree water, the turtle’s only sign of life
was a mark in the wet sand suggesting a flipper had moved sometime since high tide had
left it and withdrawn.
This nation that sees itself stretching from sea to shining sea conceals beneath her
broad, waving skirts of bordering oceans some of the greatest wildlife in the world. And
because it’s so effectively hidden, it’s some of the least understood.
Though the saltiness of our blood and tears speaks from within of our parent ocean, for
most people oceans seem distant, out of sight and generally out of mind. Even many who
love nature, who see our landscape and imagine herds of bison and skies darkened by
passenger pigeons and clouds of waterfowl, who escape into the woods or mountains or
even the shore, seem to get their vision stranded on the beach as though wildlife stops at
the high-tide line, where our little stunned turtle reminded us that so much actually begins.
The water makes a perfect disguise that heightens the mystery, but in some ways that’s
a great pity, because the closest thing we have left to the thundering herds and great flocks
is in the sea. Extending your vision into the grand swirl and suck of the many-fingered tides
and beyond will grant you a renewed sense of both the abundance and fragility of life.
Whether or not we can see, hear, or feel the ocean from our own home territory,
the ocean certainly feels all of us. Between a third and half the world’s people now live
within 50 miles of a coast (as any traveler can attest). In China, population density is three
times higher in coastal areas than elsewhere. The collective weight of humanity may rest on
land, but we levy heavy pressure on the sea. Most of us exert our most direct interaction
with the sea through the seafood we buy. But even air quality affects water quality because
what goes up alights elsewhere, and climate change is challenging ocean habitats by melting
sea ice and cooking corals, undermining food supplies for penguins, polar bears and reef
fishes.
People who think of themselves as conservationists carry a concern for wildlife, wildlands
and habitat quality as part of their sense of right and wrong. It is time to take these concerns
below high tide. Most people would not question a hawk’s place in the sky, nor ask what
good is a gazelle, nor wonder whether the world really needs wild orchids. Yet when told of
the plight of, say, sharks, many still think it quite reasonable to inquire, “What good are they;
why do we need them?” Fifty million buffalo once roamed the rolling green prairies of
North America. Gunners reduced them to near-extinction. Now, hunters cut from the same
cloth are at work on the rolling blue prairies of the sea and, already, the big fish — including
miracles like thousand-pound, warm-blooded bluefin tuna — are 90 percent gone. What we
regret happening on land may again happen in the sea. Those who care about wildlife
should get to know about oceans.
We brought the turtle home and warmed it a bit in the sun. It began to shed tears, a sign
of ongoing glandular function and, for us, heightened hope. Soon a flipper waved — a certain
signal of persistent life. Shortly thereafter, the aquarium people arrived to bring our little
patient into veterinary rehab. Slowly warmed, within a few hours it was conscious and
swimming, safe until release next spring.
Whether we help one unlucky creature or wish to save the world, for each of us the
challenge and opportunity is to cherish all life as the gift it is, envision it whole, seek to know
it truly, and undertake — with our minds, hearts and hands — to restore its abundance.
Where there’s life there’s hope, and so no place can inspire more hopefulness than
the great, life-making sea, home to creatures of mystery and majesty, whose future now
depends on human compassion, and our next move.}}
&&—Carl Safina
“Comes a Turtle, Comes the World”
http://www.patagonia.com, Winter 2006&&
[[15 A purpose of the second paragraph is to draw
attention to
(1) a popular vacation spot
(2) the activities of the fishermen
(3) the beauty of the islands
(4) a lesser known event
16 The details in lines 11 through 18 reinforce
the idea of
(1) diversity (3) adaptation
(2) discovery (4) rehabilitation
17 The phrase “who’d recently arrived” in line 22
refers to
(1) predatory species (3) migrating wildlife
(2) other observers (4) fishing boats
18 The figurative language in line 23 is used to
suggest
(1) confusion (3) fear
(2) speed (4) sound
19 Knowing the turtle’s species in lines 29 and 30
serves to make its discovery more
(1) serious (3) natural
(2) mysterious (4) controversial
20 As used in line 30, the word “boreal” most nearly
means
(1) clean (3) salty
(2) cold (4) hazy
21 The author’s reference to “the saltiness of our blood
and tears” (line 36) exposes the irony of our
(1) disinterest in the ocean
(2) efforts in conservation
(3) destructive habits
(4) current situation
22 Which lines establish an important cause and
effect relationship in the passage?
(1) lines 5 and 6 (3) lines 49 and 50
(2) lines 19 and 20 (4) lines 55 and 56
23 Which lines best reflect a central claim?
(1) “Actually, for … in coming” (lines 1 and 2)
(2) “This year, as usual … migrating waves”
(lines 10 and 11)
(3) “Most of us … we buy” (lines 50 and 51)
(4) “What we regret … about oceans” (lines 63
through 65)
24 The author waits until lines 66 through 70 to
reveal the fate of the baby turtle in order to
(1) present a counterclaim
(2) inject humor
(3) introduce irony
(4) maintain reader interest]]
##August 2015##

{{The factory made the best centrifugal pumps in the world, and Merle Waggoner owned
it. He’d started it. He’d just been offered two million dollars for it by the General Forge and
Foundry Company. He didn’t have any stockholders and he didn’t owe a dime. He was
fifty-one, a widower, and he had one heir—a son. The boy’s name was Franklin. The boy
was named after Benjamin Franklin.
One Friday afternoon father and son came out of Merle’s office and into the factory.
They went down a factory aisle to Rudy Linberg’s lathe.
“Rudy,” said Merle, “the boy here’s home from college for three days, and I thought
maybe you and him and your boy and me might go out to the farm and shoot some clay
pigeons tomorrow.”
Rudy turned his sky-blue eyes to Merle and young Franklin. He was Merle’s age, and
he had the deep and narrow dignity of a man who had learned his limitations early—who
had never tried to go beyond them. His limitations were those of his tools, his flute and his
shotgun. …
“Let’s go ask my boy what he’s got on tomorrow,” said Rudy. It was a formality. Karl
always did what his father wanted him to do—did it with profound love. …
Karl was a carbon copy of his father. He was such a good mimic of Rudy that his joints
seemed to ache a little with age. He seemed sobered by fifty-one years of life, though he’d
lived only twenty. He seemed instinctively wary of safety hazards that had been eliminated
from the factory by the time he’d learned to walk. Karl stood at attention without humility,
just as his father had done.
“Want to go shooting tomorrow?” said Rudy.
“Shoot what?” said Karl.
“Crows. Clay pigeons,” said Rudy. “Maybe a woodchuck.”
“Don’t mind,” said Karl. He nodded briefly to Merle and Franklin. “Glad to.” …
Rudy nodded. He examined the work in Karl’s lathe and tapped his own temple. The
tapping was a signal that Franklin had seen many times on hunts. It meant that Karl was
doing fine.
Rudy touched Karl’s elbow lightly. It was the signal for Karl to get back to work. Rudy
and Karl each held up a crooked finger and saluted with it. Franklin knew what that meant
too. It meant, “Good-by, I love you.” …
Merle was sitting at his desk, his head down, when Franklin came in. He held a steel
plate about six inches square in his left hand. In the middle of the plate was a hole two inches
square. In his right hand he held a steel cube that fitted the hole exactly. …
Franklin sat down gingerly on a hard chair by the wall. The office hadn’t changed much
in the years he’d known it. It was one more factory room, with naked pipes overhead—the
cold ones sweaty, the hot ones dry. Wires snaked from steel box to steel box. The green walls
and cream trim were as rough as elephant hide in some places, with alternating coats of
paint and grime, paint and grime.
There had never been time to scrape away the layers, and barely enough time,
overnight, to slap on new paint. And there had never been time in which to finish the rough
shelves that lined the room. …
Merle slipped the cube through the square hole once more. “Know what these are?” he
said.
“Yes, sir,” said Franklin. “They’re what Rudy Linberg had to make when he was an
apprentice in Sweden.”
The cube could be slipped through the hole in twenty-four different ways, without
letting the tiniest ray of light pass through with it.
“Unbelievable skill,” said Franklin respectfully. “There aren’t craftsmen like that
coming along any more.” He didn’t really feel much respect. He was simply saying what he
knew his father wanted to hear. The cube and the hole struck him as criminal wastes of time
and great bores. “Unbelievable,” he said again.
“It’s utterly unbelievable, when you realize that Rudy didn’t make them,” said Merle
gravely, “when you realize what generation the man who made them belongs to.”
“Oh?” said Franklin. “Who did make them?”
“Rudy’s boy, Karl,” said Merle. “A member of your generation.” He ground out his cigar
sadly. “He gave them to me on my last birthday. They were on my desk, boy, waiting for me
when I came in—right beside the ones Rudy gave me thirty-one years before.” …
“I could have cried, boy, when I saw those two plates and those two cubes side by side,”
said Merle. “Can you understand that?” he asked beseechingly. “Can you understand why
I’d feel like crying?” …
“The cube of Karl’s fitted through the hole of Rudy’s!” said Merle. “They were
interchangeable!”
“Gosh!” said Franklin. “I’ll be darned. Really?”
And now he felt like crying, because he didn’t care, couldn’t care—and would have
given his right arm to care. The factory whanged and banged and screeched in monstrous
irrelevance—Franklin’s, all Franklin’s, if he just said the word.
“What’ll you do with it—buy a theater in New York?” said Merle abruptly.
“Do with what, sir?” said Franklin.
“The money I’ll get for the factory when I sell it—the money I’ll leave to you when I’m
dead,” said Merle. He hit the word “dead” hard. “What’s Waggoner Pump going to be
converted into? Waggoner Theaters? Waggoner School of Acting? The Waggoner Home for
Broken-Down Actors?”
“I—I hadn’t thought about it,” said Franklin. The idea of converting Waggoner Pump
into something equally complicated hadn’t occurred to him, and appalled him now. He was
being asked to match his father’s passion for the factory with an equal passion for something
else. And Franklin had no such passion—for the theater or anything else. …
“Don’t sell on my account,” said Franklin wretchedly.
“On whose account would I keep it?” said Merle.
“Do you have to sell it today?” said Franklin, horrified.
“Strike while the iron’s hot, I always say,” said Merle. “Today’s the day you decided to
be an actor, and, as luck would have it, we have an excellent offer for what I did with my
life.”
“Couldn’t we wait?”
“For what?” said Merle. He was having a good time now.
“Father!” cried Franklin. “For the love of heaven, father, please!” He hung his head and
shook it. “I don’t know what I’m doing,” he said brokenly. “I don’t know for sure what I want
to do yet. I’m just playing with ideas, trying to find myself. Please, father, don’t sell what
you’ve done with your life, don’t just throw it away because I’m not sure I want to do that
with my life too! Please!” Franklin looked up. “I’m not Karl Linberg,” he said. “I can’t help
it. I’m sorry, but I’m not Karl Linberg.” …}}
&&—Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
excerpted from “This Son of Mine...”
The Saturday Evening Post, August 18, 1956&&
[[1 The author’s description in lines 1 through 5
introduces a conflict by including details about
(1) an industry competitor
(2) an unexpected financial loss
(3) a revised production schedule
(4) a business opportunity
2 Merle’s invitation (lines 8 through 10) illustrates his
(1) pride in Franklin
(2) anger at Rudy
(3) respect for the Linberg family
(4) concern about the Waggoner factory
3 Rudy’s “deep and narrow dignity” (line 12) hints
at his
(1) contentment with his position in life
(2) respect for Merle’s bond with Franklin
(3) pride in Franklin’s decisions
(4) ambition to take over the company
4 Lines 17 through 21 suggest that Karl’s attitude is
a result of his
(1) health (3) schooling
(2) upbringing (4) status
5 Lines 35 through 42 serve to illustrate the
(1) tension between Merle and Rudy
(2) conflict between Franklin and Karl
(3) relationship between Merle and Franklin
(4) competition between Rudy and Karl
6 The references to the plate and cubes (lines 32
through 34 and lines 55 through 61) create a
connection to
(1) Merle’s desired relationship with his son
(2) Karl’s ambitious drive to improve the business
(3) Franklin’s obedience to his father
(4) Rudy’s devotion to the business
7 Franklin’s response in lines 49 through 52 reveals
his desire to
(1) pacify his father
(2) recreate the fine workmanship
(3) collaborate with his father
(4) take over the factory
8 Which lines reveal a shift in Franklin’s perspective?
(1) “The tapping was a signal that Franklin had
seen many times on hunts” (lines 26 and 27)
(2) “ ‘Yes, sir,’ said Franklin. ‘They’re what Rudy
Linberg had to make when he was an
apprentice in Sweden’ ” (lines 45 and 46)
(3) “The idea of converting Waggoner Pump
into something equally complicated hadn’t
occurred to him, and appalled him now”
(lines 74 and 75)
(4) “ ‘I’m not Karl Linberg,’ he said. ‘I can’t help
it. I’m sorry, but I’m not Karl Linberg’ ”
(lines 90 and 91)
9 Which quotation best reflects a central theme in
the text?
(1) “He was Merle’s age, and he had the deep
and narrow dignity of a man who had learned
his limitations early” (lines 11 and 12)
(2) “He seemed sobered by fifty-one years of
life, though he’d lived only twenty” (lines 18
and 19)
(3) “The cube could be slipped through the hole
in twenty-four different ways, without letting
the tiniest ray of light pass through with it”
(lines 47 and 48)
(4) “He was being asked to match his father’s
passion for the factory with an equal passion
for something else. And Franklin had no
such passion” (lines 75 through 77)]]
##January 20116##
{{
In the tragic situation which confronts humanity, we feel that scientists should
assemble in conference to appraise the perils that have arisen as a result of the development
of weapons of mass destruction, and to discuss a resolution in the spirit of the appended
draft.
We are speaking on this occasion, not as members of this or that nation, continent, or
creed, but as human beings, members of the species Man, whose continued existence is in
doubt. The world is full of conflicts; and, overshadowing all minor conflicts, the titanic
struggle between Communism and anti-Communism. …
We have to learn to think in a new way. We have to learn to ask ourselves, not what steps
can be taken to give military victory to whatever group we prefer, for there no longer are
such steps; the question we have to ask ourselves is: what steps can be taken to prevent a
military contest of which the issue must be disastrous to all parties? …
No doubt in an H-bomb war great cities would be obliterated. But this is one of the
minor disasters that would have to be faced. If everybody in London, New York, and
Moscow were exterminated, the world might, in the course of a few centuries, recover from
the blow. But we now know, especially since the Bikini test, that nuclear bombs can
gradually spread destruction over a very much wider area than had been supposed. …
Many warnings have been uttered by eminent men of science and by authorities in
military strategy. None of them will say that the worst results are certain. What they do say
is that these results are possible, and no one can be sure that they will not be realized. We
have not yet found that the views of experts on this question depend in any degree upon
their politics or prejudices. They depend only, so far as our researches have revealed, upon
the extent of the particular expert’s knowledge. We have found that the men who know most
are the most gloomy.
Here, then, is the problem which we present to you, stark and dreadful and inescapable:
Shall we put an end to the human race; or shall mankind renounce war? People will not face
this alternative because it is so difficult to abolish war.
The abolition of war will demand distasteful limitations of national sovereignty. But
what perhaps impedes understanding of the situation more than anything else is that the
term “mankind” feels vague and abstract. People scarcely realize in imagination that the
danger is to themselves and their children and their grandchildren, and not only to a dimly
apprehended humanity. They can scarcely bring themselves to grasp that they, individually,
and those whom they love are in imminent danger of perishing agonizingly. And so they
hope that perhaps war may be allowed to continue provided modern weapons are
prohibited.
This hope is illusory. Whatever agreements not to use H-bombs had been reached in
time of peace, they would no longer be considered binding in time of war, and both sides
would set to work to manufacture H-bombs as soon as war broke out, for, if one side
manufactured the bombs and the other did not, the side that manufactured them would
inevitably be victorious.
Although an agreement to renounce nuclear weapons as part of a general reduction of
armaments would not afford an ultimate solution, it would serve certain important purposes.
First: any agreement between East and West is to the good in so far as it tends to diminish
tension. Second: the abolition of thermo-nuclear weapons, if each side believed that the
other had carried it out sincerely, would lessen the fear of a sudden attack in the style of
Pearl Harbour, which at present keeps both sides in a state of nervous apprehension. We
should, therefore, welcome such an agreement, though only as a first step.
Most of us are not neutral in feeling, but, as human beings, we have to remember that,
if the issues between East and West are to be decided in any manner that can give any
possible satisfaction to anybody, whether Communist or anti-Communist, whether Asian or
European or American, whether White or Black, then these issues must not be decided by
war. We should wish this to be understood, both in the East and in the West.
There lies before us, if we choose, continual progress in happiness, knowledge, and
wisdom. Shall we, instead, choose death, because we cannot forget our quarrels? We
appeal, as human beings, to human beings: Remember your humanity, and forget the rest.
If you can do so, the way lies open to a new Paradise; if you cannot, there lies before you
the risk of universal death.
Resolution: We invite this Congress, and through it the scientists of the world and the general
public, to subscribe to the following resolution:
“In view of the fact that in any future world war nuclear weapons will certainly be
employed, and that such weapons threaten the continued existence of mankind, we urge
the Governments of the world to realize, and to acknowledge publicly, that their
purpose cannot be furthered by a world war, and we urge them, consequently, to find
peaceful means for the settlement of all matters of dispute between them.”}}
&&—Bertrand Russell
excerpted from “The Russell–Einstein Manifesto”
July 9, 1955
&&
[[15 Lines 1 through 4 set a tone of
(1) caution (3) hostility
(2) futility (4) accusation
16 The position taken in lines 9 through 12 suggests
(1) a justification of modern warfare and politics
(2) a connection between military victory and
the destruction of Communism
(3) the similarity of Communist and
anti-Communist ideals
(4) the relationship between military conflict
and ultimate disaster
17 Lines 18 through 24 help to refine the central
idea in the text by
(1) including statements that express opposing
points of view
(2) providing a summary of the opinions of
experts in this area
(3) encouraging individuals to become involved
with the cause
(4) opposing an involvement by politicians and
scientists
18 The rhetorical question posed in line 26 emphasizes
the
(1) unavoidable nature of the problem
(2) important issue of national sovereignty
(3) likely elimination of weapons of mass
destruction
(4) probable establishment of a new world
power
19 The phrase “dimly apprehended” (lines 31 and 32)
suggests that average people’s understanding of the
concept of mankind is
(1) realistic (3) pessimistic
(2) limited (4) insightful
20 As used in line 36, the word “illusory” most closely
means
(1) deceptive (3) regrettable
(2) sustainable (4) certain
21 Lines 41 through 47 suggest that a potential
agreement on weaponry would be
(1) successful (3) unpopular
(2) controversial (4) helpful
22 Which statement from the text is best supported
by lines 48 through 52?
(1) “We have found that the men who know
most are the most gloomy” (lines 23 and 24)
(2) “The abolition of war will demand distasteful
limitations of national sovereignty” (line 28)
(3) “And so they hope that perhaps war may be
allowed to continue provided modern
weapons are prohibited” (lines 33 through 35)
(4) “Remember your humanity, and forget the
rest” (line 55)
23 The “Resolution” stated in lines 58 through 64
serves to
(1) advise the Congress to debate the proposal
(2) stress the importance of non-military solutions
to conflicts
(3) demand the elimination of weapons of mass
destruction
(4) condemn the Governments that violate the
Manifesto
24 The Manifesto states that the presence of nuclear
weapons requires individuals to
(1) advocate for international conflict resolution
(2) elect politicians who will support disarmament
(3) participate in public discussions about the
military
(4) prepare the communities for nuclear attack]]
##January 2016##
{{…When the short days of winter came dusk fell before we had well eaten our dinners.
When we met in the street the houses had grown sombre. The space of sky above us was
the colour of ever-changing violet and towards it the lamps of the street lifted their feeble
lanterns. The cold air stung us and we played till our bodies glowed. Our shouts echoed in
the silent street. The career of our play brought us through the dark muddy lanes behind
the houses where we ran the gauntlet of the rough tribes from the cottages, to the back
doors of the dark dripping gardens where odours arose from the ashpits, to the dark
odorous stables where a coachman smoothed and combed the horse or shook music from
the buckled harness. When we returned to the street light from the kitchen windows had
filled the areas. If my uncle was seen turning the corner we hid in the shadow until we had
seen him safely housed. Or if Mangan’s sister came out on the doorstep to call her brother
in to his tea we watched her from our shadow peer up and down the street. We waited to
see whether she would remain or go in and, if she remained, we left our shadow and walked
up to Mangan’s steps resignedly. She was waiting for us, her figure defined by the light from
the half-opened door. Her brother always teased her before he obeyed and I stood by the
railings looking at her. Her dress swung as she moved her body and the soft rope of her hair
tossed from side to side.
Every morning I lay on the floor in the front parlour watching her door. The blind was
pulled down to within an inch of the sash so that I could not be seen. When she came out
on the doorstep my heart leaped. I ran to the hall, seized my books and followed her. I kept
her brown figure always in my eye and, when we came near the point at which our ways
diverged, I quickened my pace and passed her. This happened morning after morning.
I had never spoken to her, except for a few casual words, and yet her name was like a
summons to all my foolish blood. …
At last she spoke to me. When she addressed the first words to me I was so confused
that I did not know what to answer. She asked me was I going to Araby. I forget whether
I answered yes or no. It would be a splendid bazaar, she said she would love to go.
‘And why can’t you?’ I asked.
While she spoke she turned a silver bracelet round and round her wrist. She could not
go, she said, because there would be a retreat that week in her convent. Her brother and
two other boys were fighting for their caps and I was alone at the railings. She held one of
the spikes, bowing her head towards me. The light from the lamp opposite our door caught
the white curve of her neck, lit up her hair that rested there and, falling, lit up the hand
upon the railing. It fell over one side of her dress and caught the white border of a petticoat,
just visible as she stood at ease.
‘It’s well for you,’ she said.
‘If I go,’ I said, ‘I will bring you something.’
What innumerable follies laid waste my waking and sleeping thoughts after that
evening! I wished to annihilate the tedious intervening days. I chafed against the work of
school. At night in my bedroom and by day in the classroom her image came between me
and the page I strove to read. The syllables of the word Araby were called to me through
the silence in which my soul luxuriated and cast an Eastern enchantment over me. I asked
for leave to go to the bazaar on Saturday night. My aunt was surprised and hoped it was not
some Freemason affair. I answered few questions in class. I watched my master’s face pass
from amiability to sternness; he hoped I was not beginning to idle. I could not call my
wandering thoughts together. I had hardly any patience with the serious work of life which,
now that it stood between me and my desire, seemed to me child’s play, ugly monotonous
child’s play.
On Saturday morning I reminded my uncle that I wished to go to the bazaar in the
evening. He was fussing at the hallstand, looking for the hat-brush, and answered me curtly:
‘Yes, boy, I know.’ …
At nine o’clock I heard my uncle’s latchkey in the halldoor. I heard him talking to
himself and heard the hallstand rocking when it had received the weight of his overcoat.
I could interpret these signs. When he was midway through his dinner I asked him to give
me the money to go to the bazaar. He had forgotten.
‘The people are in bed and after their first sleep now,’ he said.
I did not smile. My aunt said to him energetically: ‘Can’t you give him the money and
let him go? You’ve kept him late enough as it is.’…
I held a florin tightly in my hand as I strode down Buckingham Street towards the
station. The sight of the streets thronged with buyers and glaring with gas recalled to me
the purpose of my journey. I took my seat in a third-class carriage of a deserted train. After
an intolerable delay the train moved out of the station slowly. It crept onward among
ruinous houses and over the twinkling river. At Westland Row Station a crowd of people
pressed to the carriage doors; but the porters moved them back, saying that it was a special
train for the bazaar. I remained alone in the bare carriage. In a few minutes the train drew
up beside an improvised wooden platform. I passed out on to the road and saw by the
lighted dial of a clock that it was ten minutes to ten. In front of me was a large building
which displayed the magical name. …
Remembering with difficulty why I had come I went over to one of the stalls and
examined porcelain vases and flowered tea-sets. At the door of the stall a young lady was
talking and laughing with two young gentlemen. I remarked their English accents and
listened vaguely to their conversation. …
Observing me the young lady came over and asked me did I wish to buy anything.
The tone of her voice was not encouraging; she seemed to have spoken to me out of a sense
of duty. I looked humbly at the great jars that stood like eastern guards at either side of the
dark entrance to the stall and murmured:
‘No, thank you.’
The young lady changed the position of one of the vases and went back to the two young
men. They began to talk of the same subject. Once or twice the young lady glanced at me
over her shoulder.
I lingered before her stall, though I knew my stay was useless, to make my interest in
her wares seem the more real. Then I turned away slowly and walked down the middle of
the bazaar. I allowed the two pennies to fall against the sixpence in my pocket. I heard a
voice call from one end of the gallery that the light was out. The upper part of the hall was
now completely dark.
Gazing up into the darkness I saw myself as a creature driven and derided by vanity; and
my eyes burned with anguish and anger.
}}
&&—James Joyce
excerpted from “Araby”
Dubliners, 1914
Grant Richards LTD.&&
[[1 The description of the neighborhood in lines 1
through 9 contributes to a mood of
(1) indifference (3) anxiety
(2) gloom (4) regret
2 Which quotation from the text best illustrates the
narrator’s attitude toward Mangan’s sister?
(1) “we watched her from our shadow” (line 12)
(2) “We waited to see whether she would
remain or go in” (lines 12 and 13)
(3) “yet her name was like a summons”
(lines 23 and 24)
(4) “She asked me was I going to Araby”
(line 26)
3 Lines 25 through 32 reveal Mangan’s sister’s
(1) disinterest (3) disappointment
(2) silliness (4) tension
4 Lines 38 through 48 help to develop the idea that
the narrator has
(1) recognized that his priorities have changed
(2) determined the academic focus of his studies
(3) eliminated distractions from his daily routine
(4) reassessed his relationship with his family
5 The description of the narrator’s train ride (lines 59 through 66) supports a theme of
(1) confusion (3) persecution
(2) isolation (4) deception
6 The description in lines 73 through 82 suggests
that the bazaar symbolizes
(1) excessive greed (3) false promise
(2) future wealth (4) lasting love
7 It can be inferred from the text that the narrator’s
behavior is most guided by his
(1) school experience
(2) family situation
(3) childhood memories
(4) romantic feelings
8 As used in line 86, the word “derided” most nearly
means
(1) taunted (3) rewarded
(2) restrained (4) flattered
9 Based on the text as a whole, the narrator’s feelings
of “anguish and anger” (line 87) are most likely a
result of his having
(1) ignored his opportunities
(2) defended his family
(3) realized his limitations
(4) denied his responsibilities
10 Which quotation best reflects a central theme of
the text?
(1) “Her brother and two other boys were
fighting for their caps” (lines 30 and 31)
(2) “ ‘Can’t you give him the money and
let him go?’ ” (lines 57 and 58)
(3) “It crept onward among ruinous houses and
over the twinkling river” (lines 62 and 63)
(4) “I lingered before her stall, though I knew
my stay was useless” (line 81)]]
##June 2016##

{{
…Memory teaches me what I know of these matters. The boy reminds the adult. I was
a bilingual child, but of a certain kind: “socially disadvantaged,” the son of working-class
parents, both Mexican immigrants. …
In public, my father and mother spoke a hesitant, accented, and not always grammatical
English. And then they would have to strain, their bodies tense, to catch the sense of what
was rapidly said by los gringos. At home, they returned to Spanish. The language of their
Mexican past sounded in counterpoint to the English spoken in public. The words would
come quickly, with ease. Conveyed through those sounds was the pleasing, soothing,
consoling reminder that one was at home.
During those years when I was first learning to speak, my mother and father addressed
me only in Spanish; in Spanish I learned to reply. By contrast, English (inglés) was the
language I came to associate with gringos, rarely heard in the house. I learned my first
words of English overhearing my parents speaking to strangers. At six years of age, I knew
just enough words for my mother to trust me on errands to stores one block away—but no
more.
I was then a listening child, careful to hear the very different sounds of Spanish and
English. Wide-eyed with hearing, I’d listen to sounds more than to words. First, there were
English (gringo) sounds. So many words still were unknown to me that when the butcher
or the lady at the drugstore said something, exotic polysyllabic sounds would bloom in the
midst of their sentences. Often the speech of people in public seemed to me very loud,
booming with confidence. The man behind the counter would literally ask, “What can I do
for you?” But by being so firm and clear, the sound of his voice said that he was a gringo;
he belonged in public society. There were also the high, nasal notes of middle-class
American speech—which I rarely am conscious of hearing today because I hear them so
often, but could not stop hearing when I was a boy. Crowds at Safeway or at bus stops were
noisy with the birdlike sounds of los gringos. I’d move away from them all—all the chirping
chatter above me.
My own sounds I was unable to hear, but I knew that I spoke English poorly. My words
could not extend to form complete thoughts. And the words I did speak I didn’t know well
enough to make distinct sounds. (Listeners would usually lower their heads to hear better
what I was trying to say). But it was one thing for me to speak English with difficulty; it was
more troubling to hear my parents speaking in public: their high-whining vowels and
guttural consonants; their sentences that got stuck with “eh” and “ah” sounds; the confused
syntax; the hesitant rhythm of sounds so different from the way gringos spoke. I’d notice,
moreover, that my parents’ voices were softer than those of gringos we would meet.
I am tempted to say now that none of this mattered. (In adulthood I am embarrassed
by childhood fears.) And, in a way, it didn’t matter very much that my parents could not
speak English with ease. Their linguistic difficulties had no serious consequences.
My mother and father made themselves understood at the county hospital clinic and at
government offices. And yet, in another way, it mattered very much. It was unsettling to
hear my parents struggle with English. Hearing them, I’d grow nervous, and my clutching
trust in their protection and power would be weakened. …
But then there was Spanish: español, the language rarely heard away from the house;
español, the language which seemed to me therefore a private language, my family’s
language. To hear its sounds was to feel myself specially recognized as one of the family,
apart from los otros. A simple remark, an inconsequential comment could convey that
assurance. My parents would say something to me and I would feel embraced by the sounds
of their words. Those sounds said: I am speaking with ease in Spanish. I am addressing you
in words I never use with los gringos. I recognize you as someone special, close, like no one
outside. You belong with us. In the family. Ricardo.
At the age of six, well past the time when most middle-class children no longer notice
the difference between sounds uttered at home and words spoken in public, I had a
different experience. I lived in a world compounded of sounds. I was a child longer than
most. I lived in a magical world, surrounded by sounds both pleasing and fearful. I shared
with my family a language enchantingly private—different from that used in the city around
us. …
If I rehearse here the changes in my private life after my Americanization, it is finally
to emphasize a public gain. The loss implies the gain. The house I returned to each
afternoon was quiet. Intimate sounds no longer greeted me at the door. Inside there were
other noises. The telephone rang. Neighborhood kids ran past the door of the bedroom
where I was reading my schoolbooks—covered with brown shopping-bag paper. Once
I learned the public language, it would never again be easy for me to hear intimate family
voices. More and more of my day was spent hearing words, not sounds. But that may only
be a way of saying that on the day I raised my hand in class and spoke loudly to an entire
roomful of faces, my childhood started to end. …}}
&&—Richard Rodriguez
excerpted from “Aria: A Memoir of a Bilingual Childhood”
The American Scholar, Winter 1981
The Phi Beta Kappa Society&&
[[15 The phrase “the boy reminds the adult” in the
first paragraph establishes the narrator’s
(1) mood (3) creativity
(2) perspective (4) disposition
16 The use of the word “counterpoint” in line 7
helps to develop a central idea by presenting
(1) differing memories
(2) opposing principles
(3) contrasting cultures
(4) conflicting philosophies
17 The use of figurative language in line 17
demonstrates the narrator’s
(1) eagerness to learn
(2) desire for recognition
(3) frustration with authority
(4) anxiety about adulthood
18 The use of the word “public” in line 23 emphasizes
the narrator’s feeling of
(1) accomplishment (3) satisfaction
(2) disillusionment (4) separation
19 The description of the narrator speaking English
in lines 28 through 31 emphasizes his inability to
(1) communicate effectively
(2) understand the culture
(3) distinguish between languages
(4) express emotions
20 In lines 38 through 42 the narrator’s reaction to
his parents’ “linguistic difficulties” (line 38)
reveals his
(1) low expectations
(2) conflicting feelings
(3) educational concerns
(4) hostile thoughts
21 Lines 43 through 50 contribute to a central idea
in the text by focusing on the
(1) narrator’s sense of security
(2) family’s economic status
(3) family’s traditional beliefs
(4) narrator’s feeling of confusion
22 Which quotation best reflects the narrator’s overall
experience with language?
(1) “The words would come quickly, with ease”
(lines 7 and 8)
(2) “I’d listen to sounds more than to words”
(line 17)
(3) “My own sounds I was unable to hear, but
I knew that I spoke English poorly” (line 28)
(4) “Hearing them, I’d grow nervous” (line 41)
23 The phrase “the loss implies the gain” (line 58)
contributes to a central idea in the text by
indicating that when the narrator speaks English
comfortably he is
(1) disconnected from his family
(2) distressed by hearing English sounds
(3) uninterested in his school work
(4) undeterred from making new friends
24 The narrator’s tone in lines 63 through 65
suggests
(1) distrust (3) confidence
(2) respect (4) intolerance]]
##June 2016##
{{
…Three years in London had not changed Richard, although it had changed the way
he perceived the city. Richard had originally imagined London as a gray city, even a black
city, from pictures he had seen, and he was surprised to find it filled with color. It was a city
of red brick and white stone, red buses and large black taxis, bright red mailboxes and green
grassy parks and cemeteries. …
Two thousand years before, London had been a little Celtic village on the north shore
of the Thames, which the Romans had encountered, then settled in. London had grown,
slowly, until, roughly a thousand years later, it met the tiny Royal City of Westminster
immediately to the west, and, once London Bridge had been built, London touched the
town of Southwark directly across the river; and it continued to grow, fields and woods and
marshland slowly vanishing beneath the flourishing town, and it continued to expand,
encountering other little villages and hamlets as it grew, like Whitechapel and Deptford to
the east, Hammersmith and Shepherd’s Bush to the west, Camden and Islington in the
north, Battersea and Lambeth across the Thames to the south, absorbing all of them,
just as a pool of mercury encounters and incorporates smaller beads of mercury, leaving
only their names behind.
London grew into something huge and contradictory. It was a good place, and a fine
city, but there is a price to be paid for all good places, and a price that all good places have
to pay.
After a while, Richard found himself taking London for granted; in time, he began to
pride himself on having visited none of the sights of London (except for the Tower of
London, when his Aunt Maude came down to the city for a weekend, and Richard found
himself her reluctant escort).
But Jessica changed all that. Richard found himself, on otherwise sensible weekends,
accompanying her to places like the National Gallery and the Tate Gallery, where he
learned that walking around museums too long hurts your feet, that the great art treasures
of the world all blur into each other after a while, and that it is almost beyond the human
capacity for belief to accept how much museum cafeterias will brazenly charge for a slice of
cake and a cup of tea. …
Richard had been awed by Jessica, who was beautiful, and often quite funny, and was
certainly going somewhere. And Jessica saw in Richard an enormous amount of potential,
which, properly harnessed by the right woman, would have made him the perfect
matrimonial accessory. If only he were a little more focused, she would murmur to herself,
and so she gave him books with titles like Dress for Success and A Hundred and Twenty-
Five Habits of Successful Men, and books on how to run a business like a military campaign,
and Richard always said thank you, and always intended to read them. In Harvey Nichols’s
men’s fashion department she would pick out for him the kinds of clothes she thought that
he should wear—and he wore them, during the week, anyway; and, a year to the day after
their first encounter, she told him she thought it was time that they went shopping for an
engagement ring.
“Why do you go out with her?” asked Gary, in Corporate Accounts, eighteen months
later. “She’s terrifying.”
Richard shook his head. “She’s really sweet, once you get to know her.”
Gary put down the plastic troll doll he had picked up from Richard’s desk. “I’m
surprised she still lets you play with these.” …
It was a Friday afternoon. Richard had noticed that events were cowards: they didn’t
occur singly, but instead they would run in packs and leap out at him all at once. Take this
particular Friday, for example. It was, as Jessica had pointed out to him at least a dozen
times in the last month, the most important day of his life. So it was unfortunate that,
despite the Post-it note Richard had left on his fridge door at home, and the other Post-it
note he had placed on the photograph of Jessica on his desk, he had forgotten about it
completely and utterly.
Also, there was the Wandsworth report, which was overdue and taking up most of his
head. Richard checked another row of figures; then he noticed that page 17 had vanished,
and he set it up to print out again; and another page down, and he knew that if he were only
left alone to finish it…if, miracle of miracles, the phone did not ring.…It rang. He thumbed
the speakerphone.
“Hello? Richard? The managing director needs to know when he’ll have the report.”
Richard looked at his watch. “Five minutes, Sylvia. It’s almost wrapped up. I just have
to attach the P & L projection.”
“Thanks, Dick. I’ll come down for it.” Sylvia was, as she liked to explain, “the MD’s PA,”
[Managing Director’s Personal Assistant] and she moved in an atmosphere of crisp
efficiency. He thumbed the speakerphone off; it rang again, immediately. “Richard,” said
the speaker, with Jessica’s voice, “it’s Jessica. You haven’t forgotten, have you?”
“Forgotten?” He tried to remember what he could have forgotten. He looked at
Jessica’s photograph for inspiration and found all the inspiration he could have needed in
the shape of a yellow Post-it note stuck to her forehead.
“Richard? Pick up the telephone.”
He picked up the phone, reading the Post-it note as he did so. “Sorry, Jess. No, I hadn’t
forgotten. Seven P.M., at Ma Maison Italiano. Should I meet you there?”
“Jessica, Richard. Not Jess.” She paused for a moment. “After what happened last time?
I don’t think so. You really could get lost in your own backyard, Richard.” …
“I’ll meet you at your place,” said Jessica. “We can walk down together.”
“Right, Jess. Jessica—sorry.”
“You have confirmed our reservation, haven’t you, Richard.”
“Yes,” lied Richard earnestly. The other line on his phone had begun to ring. “Jessica,
look, I…”
“Good,” said Jessica, and she broke the connection. He picked up the other line.
“Hi Dick. It’s me, Gary.” Gary sat a few desks down from Richard. He waved. “Are we
still on for drinks? You said we could go over the Merstham account.”
“Get off the bloody phone, Gary. Of course we are.” Richard put down the phone.
There was a telephone number at the bottom of the Post-it note; Richard had written the
Post-it note to himself, several weeks earlier. And he had made the reservation: he was
almost certain of that. But he had not confirmed it. He had kept meaning to, but there had
been so much to do and Richard had known that there was plenty of time. But events run
in packs…
Sylvia was now standing next to him. “Dick? The Wandsworth report?”
“Almost ready, Sylvia. Look, just hold on a sec, can you?”
He finished punching in the number, breathed a sigh of relief when somebody
answered. “Ma Maison. Can I help you?”
“Yes,” said Richard. “A table for three, for tonight. I think I booked it. And if I did I’m
confirming the reservation. And if I didn’t, I wondered if I could book it. Please.” No, they
had no record of a table for tonight in the name of Mayhew. Or Stockton. Or Bartram—
Jessica’s surname. And as for booking a table…
They had put down the phone.
“Richard?” said Sylvia. “The MD’s waiting.”
“Do you think,” asked Richard, “they’d give me a table if I phoned back and offered
them extra money?” …}}
&&—Neil Gaiman
excerpted and adapted from Neverwhere, 1997
Avon Books&&
[[1 The author most likely includes the description of
London in lines 1 through 19 to
(1) provide reasons for Richard’s dislike of the
city
(2) highlight opportunities for Richard’s career
in the city
(3) convey a sense of Richard’s frustration with
the city
(4) illustrate the nature of Richard’s life in the
city
2 The figurative language used in line 15 reinforces the
(1) growth of the city
(2) problems with development
(3) increase in isolation
(4) history of the towns
3 The narrator uses lines 24 through 29 to help the
reader understand Richard’s
(1) continuous efforts to save money while on
dates
(2) willingness to tolerate undesirable situations
to please others
(3) overall acceptance of cultural experiences in
the city
(4) affection for newfound experiences when
shared with others
4 In the context of the text as a whole, which
statement regarding lines 41 through 43 is true?
(1) Gary is jealous of Richard because he has a
girlfriend.
(2) Gary has a moody temperament and hides
his feelings.
(3) Richard has a plan and wishes to keep it a
secret.
(4) Richard is in a state of denial regarding his
relationship.
5 How do lines 46 and 47 contribute to the
characterization of Richard?
(1) by portraying him as inefficient at organizing
his time
(2) by indicating that he works well under
pressure
(3) by describing him as likely to succeed
(4) by suggesting that he is unmotivated in his
job
6 The narrator’s description of Sylvia as moving
“in an atmosphere of crisp efficiency” (lines 62
and 63) presents a
(1) shift (3) contrast
(2) possibility (4) solution
7 Lines 68 through 72 contribute to a central idea
by highlighting Jessica’s
(1) domineering nature
(2) compassionate side
(3) lack of responsibility
(4) sense of humor
8 The narrator’s use of dialogue in lines 68 through 81 enhances a mood of
(1) satisfaction (3) confidence
(2) stress (4) remorse
9 Richard’s question in lines 97 and 98 reveals his
(1) subtle refinement (3) honest gratitude
(2) suppressed hostility (4) quiet desperation
10 Which quote best reflects a central theme in the
text?
(1) “London grew into something huge and
contradictory … and a price that all good
places have to pay.” (lines 17 through 19)
(2) “Richard checked another row of figures …
and he set it up to print out again;” (lines 54
and 55)
(3) “Richard looked at his watch. ‘Five minutes,
Sylvia. It’s almost wrapped up. I just have to
attach the P & L projection.’ ” (lines 59 and 60)
(4) “He finished punching in the number,
breathed a sigh of relief when somebody
answered. ‘Ma Maison. Can I help you?’ ”
(lines 89 and 90)]]
##August 2016##
{{…By natural design, dogs’ ears have evolved to hear certain kinds of sounds. Happily, that
set of sounds overlaps with those we can hear and produce: if we utter it, it will at least hit the
eardrum of a nearby dog. Our auditory range is from 20 hertz to 20 kilohertz: from the
lowest pitch on the longest organ pipe to an impossibly squeaky squeak. We spend most of
our time straining to understand sounds between 100 hertz and 1 kilohertz, the range of any
interesting speech going on in the vicinity. Dogs hear most of what we hear and then some.
They can detect sounds up to 45 kilohertz, much higher than the hair cells of our ears
bother to bend to. Hence the power of the dog whistle, a seemingly magical device that
makes no apparent sound and yet perks the ears of dogs for blocks around. We call this
sound “ultrasonic,” since it’s beyond our ken,1 but it is within the sonic range for many
animals in our local environment. Don’t think for a moment that apart from the occasional
dog whistle, the world is quiet for dogs up at those high registers. Even a typical room is
pulsing with high frequencies, detectable by dogs constantly. Think your bedroom is quiet
when you rise in the morning? The crystal resonator used in digital alarm clocks emits a
never-ending alarm of high-frequency pulses audible to canine ears. Dogs can hear the
navigational chirping of rats behind your walls and the bodily vibrations of termites within
your walls. That compact fluorescent light you installed to save energy? You may not hear
the hum, but your dog probably can.
The range of pitches we are most intent on are those used in speech. Dogs hear all
sounds of speech, and are nearly as good as we are at detecting a change of pitch—relevant,
say, for understanding statements, which end in a low pitch, versus questions, which in
English end in a raised pitch: “Do you want to go for a walk(?)” With the question mark,
this sentence is exciting to a dog with experience going on walks with humans. Without it,
it is simply noise. Imagine the confusion generated by the recent growth of “up-talking,”
speech that ends every sentence with the sound of a question?
If dogs understand the stress and tones—the prosody—of speech, does this hint that
they understand language? This is a natural but vexed question. Since language use is one
of the most glaring differences between the human animal and all other animals, it has been
proposed as the ultimate, incomparable criterion for intelligence. This raises serious hackles
in some animal researchers (not thought of as a hackled species, ironically), who have set
about trying to demonstrate what linguistic ability animals have. Even those researchers
who may agree that language is necessary for intelligence have nonetheless added reams of
results to the growing pile of evidence of linguistic ability in non-human animals. All parties
agree, though, that there has been no discovery of a humanlike language—a corpus of
infinitely combinable words that often carry many definitions, with rules for combining
words into meaningful sentences—in animals.
This is not to say that animals might not understand some of our language use, even if
they don’t produce it themselves. There are, for instance, many examples of animals taking
advantage of the communicative system of nearby unrelated animal species. Monkeys can
make use of nearby birds’ warning calls of a nearby predator to themselves take protective
action. Even an animal who deceives another animal by mimicry—which some snakes,
moths, and even flies can do—is in some way using another species’s [sic] language.
The research with dogs suggests that they do understand language—to a limited degree.
On the one hand, to say that dogs understand words is a misnomer. Words exist in a
language, which itself is product of a culture; dogs are participants in that culture on a very
different level. Their framework for understanding the application of the word is entirely
different. There is, no doubt, more to the words of their world than Gary Larson’s Far Side
comics suggest: eat, walk, and fetch. But he is on to something, insofar as these are
organizing elements of their interaction with us: we circumscribe the dog’s world to a small
set of activities. Working dogs seem miraculously responsive and focused compared to city
pets. It is not that they are innately more responsive or focused, but that their owners have
added to their vocabularies types of things to do.
One component in understanding a word is the ability to discriminate it from other
words. Given their sensitivity to the prosody of speech, dogs do not always excel at this.
Try asking your dog on one morning to go for a walk; on the next, ask if your dog wants to
snow forty locks in the same voice. If everything else remains the same, you’ll probably get
the same, affirmative reaction. The very first sounds of an utterance seem to be important
to dog perception, though, so changing the swallowed consonants for articulated ones and
the long vowels for short ones—ma for a polk?—might prompt the confusion merited by
this gibberish. Of course humans read meaning into prosody, too. English does not give the
prosody of speech syntactical leverage but it is still part of how we interpret “what has just
been said.”
If we were more sensitive to the sound of what we say to dogs, we might get better
responses from them. High-pitched sounds mean something different than low sounds;
rising sounds contrast with falling sounds. It is not accidental that we find ourselves cooing
to an infant in silly, giddy tones (called motherese)—and might greet a wagging dog with
similar baby talk. Infants can hear other speech sounds, but they are more interested in
motherese. Dogs, too, respond with alacrity  to baby talk—partially because it distinguishes
speech that is directed at them from the rest of the continuous yammering above their
heads. Moreover, they will come more easily to high-pitched and repeated call requests
than to those at a lower pitch. What is the ecology behind this? High-pitched sounds are
naturally interesting to dogs: they might indicate the excitement of a tussle or the shrieking
of nearby injured prey. If a dog fails to respond to your reasonable suggestion that he come
right now, resist the urge to lower and sharpen your tone. It indicates your frame of mind—
and the punishment that might ensue for his prior uncooperativeness. Correspondingly,
it is easier to get a dog to sit on command to a longer, descending tone rather than repeated,
rising notes. Such a tone might be more likely to induce relaxation, or preparation for the
next command from their talky human. …}}
&&—Alexandra Horowitz
excerpted from Inside of a Dog, 2010
Scribner&&
[[15 Lines 1 through 11 introduce the central idea of
the passage by
(1) explaining how ear structure affects sound
(2) describing various frequencies dogs hear
(3) explaining various ways humans hear
(4) describing how dog whistle tones differ
16 Lines 19 through 22 best support the idea that
(1) dogs cannot learn to obey human signals
(2) human actions are difficult for dogs to
interpret
(3) humans can verbally communicate with dogs
(4) dogs can learn complex human language
17 Based on lines 19 through 25, humans can possibly
confuse dogs by
(1) speaking to dogs in a nonsense language
(2) giving dogs only direct commands
(3) making gestures when speaking to dogs
(4) altering the intonation of familiar words
18 Lines 26 through 29 illustrate that language use is
an indicator of
(1) higher-level thinking
(2) basic survival instinct
(3) increased emotional response
(4) problem-solving skills
19 In lines 33 through 36, the author states there is
agreement that non-human animals cannot
(1) master complicated directions
(2) duplicate human sound pitches
(3) create human sentence structures
(4) interpret foreign languages
20 The primary function of the examples in lines 38
through 42 is to show how some animals can
(1) imitate behavior and sound
(2) foster community and diversity
(3) transform from prey to predator
(4) compromise freedom for safety
21 The author uses the term “gibberish” in line 60 to
emphasize the
(1) importance of word order
(2) complexity of spoken sounds
(3) relevance of hidden gestures
(4) necessity of voice and movement
22 Which sentence best restates a central idea in
lines 57 through 65?
(1) High-pitched sounds often cause dogs to
become agitated.
(2) How we speak to dogs is more important
than what we say.
(3) Dogs must learn to interpret human speech
early in life.
(4) Dogs become distressed when they hear
baby talk.
23 The author’s reference to “motherese” (line 66)
helps to illustrate a connection between the
(1) combinations of languages and the effects on
listeners
(2) volume of speech and possible misperception
(3) importance of word choice and its impact on
understanding
(4) styles of spoken communication and likely
responses
24 The primary purpose of the text is to
(1) explain a popular myth regarding dogs’
behavior
(2) promote a new method for working with
dogs
(3) educate people about dogs’ experience with
sound
(4) present an alternative to traditional dog
training]]
##August 2016##
{{…The windows were open and the room was filled with loud, unearthly shrieks.
Mrs. Munson lived on the third floor, and across the street was a public school playground.
In the late afternoon the noise was almost unbearable. God, if she’d only known about this
before she signed the lease! With a little grunt she closed both windows and as far as she
was concerned they could stay that way for the next two years.
But Mrs. Munson was far too excited to be really annoyed. Vini Rondo was coming to
see her, imagine, Vini Rondo.…and this very afternoon! When she thought about it she felt
fluttering wings in her stomach. It had been almost five years, and Vini had been in Europe
all this time. Whenever Mrs. Munson found herself in a group discussing the war she
invariably announced, “Well, you know I have a very dear friend in Paris this very minute,
Vini Rondo, she was right there when the Germans marched in! I have positive nightmares
when I think what she must be going through!” Mrs. Munson said it as if it were she whose
fate lay in the balance. …
“Vini, back in America,” she thought, never ceasing to revel in the wonder of it.
She puffed up the small green pillows on the couch and sat down. With piercing eyes she
examined her room. Funny you never really see your surroundings until a visitor is
expected. Well, Mrs. Munson sighed contentedly, that new girl had, for a rarity, restored
pre-war standards.
The door-bell rang abruptly. It buzzed twice before Mrs. Munson could move, she was
that excited. Finally she composed herself and went to answer.
At first Mrs. Munson didn’t recognize her. The woman who confronted her had no chic
up-swept coiffure … indeed her hair hung rather limply and had an uncombed look. A print
dress in January? Mrs. Munson tried to keep the disappointment out of her voice when she
said, “Vini, darling, I should have known you anywhere.”
The woman still stood in the threshold. Under her arm she carried a large pink box and
her grey eyes looked out at Mrs. Munson curiously.
“Would you, Bertha?” Her voice was a queer whisper. “That’s nice, very nice. I should
have recognized you, too, although you’ve gotten rather fat. [sic] haven’t you?” Then she
accepted Mrs. Munson’s extended hand and came in. …
Vini smiled and Mrs. Munson noticed how irregular her teeth were and decided they
could do with a good brushing.
“So,” Vini continued, “when I got back in New York last week I thought of you at once.
I had an awful time trying to find you because I couldn’t remember your husband’s first
name.…”
“Albert,” Mrs. Munson put in unnecessarily.
“… but I finally did and here I am. You know, Bertha, I really started thinking about you
when I decided to get rid of my mink coat.”
Mrs. Munson saw a sudden blush on Vini’s face.
“Your mink coat?”
“Yes,” Vini said, lifting up the pink box. “You remember my mink coat. You always
admired it so. You always said it was the loveliest coat you’d ever seen.” She started to undo
the frayed silk ribbon that held the box together.
“Of course, yes of course,” Mrs. Munson said, letting the “course” trill down softly.
“I said to myself, ‘Vini Rondo, what on earth do you need that coat for? Why not let
Bertha have it?’ You see, Bertha, I bought the most gorgeous sable in Paris and you can
understand that I really don’t need two fur coats. Besides I have my silver-fox jacket.”
Mrs. Munson watched her parting the tissue paper in the box, saw the chipped enamel
on her nails, saw that her fingers were jewel-less, and suddenly realized a great many other
things.
“So I thought of you and unless you want it I’ll just keep it because I couldn’t bear to
think of anyone else having it.” She held the coat and stood turning it this way and that.
It was a beautiful coat; the fur shone rich and very smooth. Mrs. Munson reached out and
ran her fingers across it ruffling the tiny hairs the wrong way. Without thinking she said:
“How much?”
Mrs. Munson brought back her hand quickly, as though she had touched fire, and then
she heard Vini’s voice, small and tired.
“I paid almost a thousand for it. Is a thousand too much?”
Down in the street Mrs. Munson could hear the deafening roar of the playground and
for once she was grateful. It gave her something else to concentrate on, something to lessen
the intensity of her own feelings.
“I’m afraid that’s too much. I really can’t afford it,” Mrs. Munson said distractedly,
still staring at the coat, afraid to lift her eyes and see the other woman’s face.
Vini tossed the coat on the couch. “Well, I want you to have it. It’s not so much the
money, but I feel I should get something back on my investment.…How much could you
afford?”
Mrs. Munson closed her eyes. Oh, God, this was awful! Just plain damned awful!
“Maybe four hundred,” she answered weakly. …
Vini leaned against the wall, her pale face looking hard in the magnified sunlight of the
big bedroom windows.
“You can make out the check to me,” she said disinterestedly.
“Yes, of course,” Mrs. Munson said, suddenly coming back to earth. Imagine Bertha Munson
with a mink of her own!
They went back into the livingroom and she wrote the check for Vini. Carefully folding
it, Vini deposited it in her small beaded purse.
Mrs. Munson tried hard to make conversation but she came up against a cold wall at
each new channel. Once she asked, “Where is your husband, Vini? You must bring him
around for Albert to talk to.” And Vini answered, “Oh, him! I haven’t seen him for aeons.
He’s still in Lisbon for all I know.” And so that was that.
Finally, after promising to phone the next day, Vini left. When she had gone Mrs. Munson
thought, “Why, poor Vini, she’s nothing but a refugee!” Then she took her new coat and
went into the bedroom. She couldn’t tell Albert how she got it, that was definite. My, but
he would be mad about the money! She decided to hide it in the furthest reaches of her
closet and then one day she’d bring it out and say, “Albert look at the divine mink I bought
at an auction. I got it for next to nothing.”
Groping in the darkness of her closet she caught the coat on a hook. She gave a little
yank and was terrified to hear the sound of ripping. Quickly she snapped on the light and
saw that the sleeve was torn. She held the tear apart and pulled slightly. It ripped more and
then some more. With a sick emptiness she knew the whole thing was rotten. “Oh, my God
[sic] she said, clutching at the linen rose in her hair, “Oh, my God, I’ve been taken and taken
good, and there’s nothing in the world I can do about it, nothing in the world!” For suddenly
Mrs. Munson realized Vini wouldn’t phone tomorrow or ever again.}}
&&—Truman Capote
excerpted from “A Mink of One’s Own”
Decade of Short Stories, 1944 &&
[[1 The opening paragraph introduces Mrs. Munson’s
character by establishing her
(1) compassion (3) intolerance
(2) deception (4) resourcefulness
2 The statement “Mrs. Munson said it as if it were
she whose fate lay in the balance” (lines 12 and
13) serves to illustrate Mrs. Munson’s desire to
(1) impress others (3) justify behavior
(2) incite conflicts (4) avoid criticism
3 Lines 21 through 24 signal a transition in
Mrs. Munson’s attitude from one of
(1) loyalty to betrayal
(2) anticipation to confusion
(3) friendship to hostility
(4) sympathy to indifference
4 The description in line 38 implies that Vini has a
(1) carefree past (3) fiery temper
(2) hidden motive (4) secret identity
5 The purpose of Vini’s comments in lines 44
through 46 is to
(1) expose Vini’s stinginess
(2) describe Vini’s coat
(3) characterize Mrs. Munson
(4) entrap Mrs. Munson
6 Based on the details in lines 47 through 49,
Mrs. Munson discovers that Vini
(1) is meticulous about her appearance
(2) is comfortable in her circumstances
(3) has an inflated self-image
(4) has experienced difficult times
7 Lines 71 and 72 refine a central idea by emphasizing
Mrs. Munson’s
(1) indignation regarding Vini
(2) irritation with negotiators
(3) concern for appearances
(4) suspicion regarding Vini
8 In the context of the text as a whole, the purpose
of Mrs. Munson’s imagined conversation in lines 83 and 84 is to
(1) convince her husband to buy her a new mink
(2) rehearse an excuse for a costly purchase
(3) protect an acquaintance from persecution
(4) share her successful negotiations with her
husband
9 What mood is created by the final paragraph?
(1) desperation (3) satisfaction
(2) aggression (4) exhilaration
10 Which statement from the text best foreshadows
Vini Rondo’s true intentions for the visit?
(1) “Funny you never really see your surroundings
until a visitor is expected.” (lines 16 and 17)
(2) “It buzzed twice before Mrs. Munson could
move, she was that excited.” (lines 19 and 20)
(3) “The woman who confronted her had no
chic up-swept coiffure … indeed her hair
hung rather limply and had an uncombed
look.” (lines 21 and 22)
(4) “Down in the street Mrs. Munson could
hear the deafening roar of the playground
and for once she was grateful.” (lines 58 and
59)]]
##January 2017##

{{Peter Lake lies deep in a maple forest near the Wisconsin-Michigan border. One day in
July 2008 a group of scientists and graduate students led by ecologist Stephen Carpenter of
the University of Wisconsin-Madison arrived at the lake with some fish. One by one, they
dropped 12 largemouth bass into the water. Then they headed for home, leaving behind
sensors that could measure water clarity every five minutes, 24 hours a day.
The scientists repeated the same trip two more times in 2009. Each time they dropped
15 more bass into the water. Months passed. The lake cycled through the seasons. It froze
over, thawed out and bloomed again with life. Then, in the summer of 2010, Peter Lake
changed dramatically. Before the scientists started their experiment, the lake abounded in
fathead minnows, pumpkinseeds and other small fish. Now, however, those once dominant
predators were rare, for the most part eaten by the largemouth bass. The few survivors hid
in the shallows. Water fleas and other tiny animals that the small fish once devoured were
now free to flourish. And because these diminutive animals graze on algae, the lake water
became clearer. Two years later the ecosystem remains in its altered state.
Peter Lake’s food web has flipped, shifting from a longstanding arrangement to a new
one. Carpenter triggered the switchover on purpose, as part of an experiment he is running
on the factors that lead to persistent changes in the mix of organisms eating and being eaten
by one another. Yet in recent decades food webs across the world have also been flipping,
often unexpectedly, on a far greater scale. Jellyfish now dominate the waters off the coast of
Namibia. Hungry snails and fungi are overrunning coastal marshes in North Carolina,
causing them to disintegrate. In the northwestern Atlantic, lobsters are proliferating while
cod have crashed.
Whether by fishing, converting land into farms and cities, or warming the planet,
humanity is putting tremendous stresses on the world’s ecosystems. As a result, ecologists
expect many more food webs to flip in the years ahead. Predicting those sudden changes is
far from straightforward, however, because food webs can be staggeringly complex.
That is where Carpenter comes in. Taking advantage of 30 years of ecological research
at Peter Lake, Carpenter and his colleagues developed mathematical models of ecological
networks that allowed them to pick up early-warning signs of the change that was coming,
15 months before its food web flipped. “We could see it a good long ways in advance,”
Carpenter says.
With the help of such models, he and other scientists are beginning to decipher some
of the rules that determine whether a food web will remain stable or cross a threshold and
change substantially. They hope to use their knowledge of those rules to monitor the state
of ecosystems so that they can identify ones at risk of collapse. Ideally, an early-warning
system would tell us when to alter human activities that are pushing an ecosystem toward
a breakdown or would even allow us to pull ecosystems back from the brink. Prevention is
key, they say, because once ecosystems pass their tipping point, it is remarkably difficult for
them to return.
Carpenter’s work builds on a century of basic research by ecologists who have sought to
answer a simple question: Why are the populations of different species the way they are?
Why, for example, are there so many flies and so few wolves? And why do the sizes of fly
populations vary greatly from one year to the next? To find an answer, ecologists began to
diagram food webs, noting who ate whom and how much each one ate. Yet food webs can
encompass dozens, hundreds or thousands of species; their complexity often turned
attempted diagrams into hopeless snarls.
To make sense of the snarls, ecologists have turned food webs into mathematical
models. They write an equation for the growth of one species by linking its reproduction
rate to how much food it can obtain and how often it gets eaten by other species. Because
all those variables can change, solving the equations for even simple food webs has proved
overwhelming. Fortunately, the rise of fast, cheap computers has recently allowed
ecologists to run simulations of many different kinds of ecosystems.
Out of this work, ecologists discovered some key principles operating in real food webs.
Most food webs, for instance, consist of many weak links rather than a few strong ones.
Two species are strongly linked if they interact a lot, such as a predator that consistently
devours huge numbers of a single prey. Species that are weakly linked interact occasionally:
a predator snacks every now and then on various species. Food webs may be dominated by
numerous weak links because that arrangement is more stable over the long term. If a
predator can eat several species, it can survive the extinction of one of them. And if a predator
can move on to another species that is easier to find when a prey species becomes rare,
the switch allows the original prey to recover. The weak links may thus keep species from
driving one another to extinction. “You see it over and over again,” says Kevin McCann,
an ecologist at the University of Guelph in Ontario.
Mathematical models have also revealed vulnerable points in food webs, where small
changes can lead to big effects throughout entire ecosystems. In the 1960s, for example,
theoreticians proposed that predators at the top of a food web exerted a surprising amount
of control over the size of populations of other species—including species they did not
directly attack. The idea of this top-down control by a small fraction of animals in an
ecosystem was greeted with skepticism. It was hard to see how a few top predators could
have such a great effect on the rest of their food web.
But then we humans began running unplanned experiments that put this so-called
trophic cascade hypothesis to the test. In the ocean, we fished for top predators such as
cod on an industrial scale, while on land, we killed off large predators such as wolves. We
introduced invasive species such as rats to islands and gave a variety of other shocks to the
world’s ecosystems. The results of these actions vindicated the key role of predators and the
cascading effects they can have from the top of a food web on down. …
Carpenter is optimistic that the early-warning system he is developing will work not just
in isolated lakes but in any ecosystem, thanks to the way ecological networks are organized.
Yet success would not mean that predicting a flip would be certain. The equations that he
and his colleagues have developed suggest that some disturbances will be so dramatic and
fast that they will not leave time for ecologists to notice that trouble is coming. “Surprises
will continue,” Carpenter says, “although the early-warning system does provide the
opportunity to anticipate some surprises before they happen.”}}
&&—Carl Zimmer
excerpted from “Ecosystems on the Brink”
Scientific American, October 2012&&
[[15 The first paragraph engages the reader by
(1) describing an experiment without revealing
its purpose
(2) challenging a theory and sharing the results
(3) citing data to disprove a theory
(4) introducing an issue to explain its implications
16 As used in line 13, the word “diminutive” most
nearly means
(1) unknown (3) sickly
(2) little (4) solitary
17 According to the author, the results of the
Peter Lake experiment (lines 15 through 18) were
(1) intentional (3) exaggerated
(2) unethical (4) inconclusive
18 The flipped food webs in Namibia, North Carolina,
and the Northwest Atlantic (lines 18 through 22)
can best be characterized as
(1) artificial (3) planned
(2) necessary (4) problematic
19 In lines 23 and 24, the author emphasizes that the
main cause for the flipping of food webs is
(1) emerging diseases
(2) human activity
(3) natural disasters
(4) accelerated evolution
20 According to lines 32 through 39, why is it important
to predict a possible change in an ecosystem?
(1) to expand human involvement
(2) to stop scientific experimentation
(3) to forestall irreversible damage
(4) to identify potential benefits
21 The author’s use of questions in lines 41 through 43
establishes a
(1) connection between population changes and
scientific findings
(2) relationship between existing predators and
prey populations
(3) dispute between prior research and
experimental outcomes
(4) conflict between established theories and
new ideas
22 The author’s use of the phrase “hopeless snarls”
in line 46 connotes a
(1) savage nature (3) distressed sound
(2) depressing situation (4) tangled mass
23 The details presented in lines 53 through 61 help
the reader to understand the
(1) negative effects of weak links
(2) predators’ need for one food source
(3) importance of having multiple prey
(4) danger in natural flipping
24 Which statement best summarizes a central idea
of the text?
(1) “Predicting those sudden changes is far from
straightforward, however, because food webs
can be staggeringly complex.” (lines 25 and 26)
(2) “Fortunately, the rise of fast, cheap
computers has recently allowed ecologists to
run simulations of many different kinds
of ecosystems.” (lines 51 and 52)
(3) “Most food webs, for instance, consist of
many weak links rather than a few strong
ones.” (line 54)
(4) “But then we humans began running
unplanned experiments that put this
so-called trophic cascade hypothesis to
the test.” (lines 71 and 72)]]
##January 2017##
{{I received one morning a letter, written in pale ink on glassy, blue-lined note-paper, and
bearing the postmark of a little Nebraska village. This communication, worn and rubbed,
looking as if it had been carried for some days in a coat pocket that was none too clean, was
from my uncle Howard, and informed me that his wife had been left a small legacy by a
bachelor relative, and that it would be necessary for her to go to Boston to attend to the
settling of the estate. He requested me to meet her at the station and render her whatever
services might be necessary. On examining the date indicated as that of her arrival, I found
it to be no later than tomorrow. He had characteristically delayed writing until, had I been
away from home for a day, I must have missed my aunt altogether. …
Whatever shock Mrs. Springer [the landlady] experienced at my aunt’s appearance,
she considerately concealed. As for myself, I saw my aunt’s battered figure with that feeling
of awe and respect with which we behold explorers who have left their ears and fingers
north of Franz-Joseph-Land, or their health somewhere along the Upper Congo. My Aunt
Georgiana had been a music teacher at the Boston Conservatory, somewhere back in the
latter sixties [1860s]. One summer, while visiting in the little village among the Green
Mountains where her ancestors had dwelt for generations, she had kindled the callow
fancy of my uncle, Howard Carpenter, then an idle, shiftless boy of twenty-one. When she
returned to her duties in Boston, Howard followed her, and the upshot of this infatuation
was that she eloped with him, eluding the reproaches of her family and the criticism of her
friends by going with him to the Nebraska frontier. Carpenter, who, of course, had
no money, took up a homestead in Red Willow County, fifty miles from the railroad.
There they had measured off their land themselves, driving across the prairie in a wagon,
to the wheel of which they had tied a red cotton handkerchief, and counting its revolutions.
They built a dug-out in the red hillside, one of those cave dwellings whose inmates so often
reverted to primitive conditions. Their water they got from the lagoons where the buffalo
drank, and their slender stock of provisions was always at the mercy of bands of roving
Indians. For thirty years my aunt had not been farther than fifty miles from the homestead.
I owed to this woman most of the good that ever came my way in my boyhood, and had
a reverential affection for her. During the years when I was riding herd for my uncle,
my aunt, after cooking the three meals — the first of which was ready at six o’clock in the
morning — and putting the six children to bed, would often stand until midnight at her
ironing-board, with me at the kitchen table beside her, hearing me recite Latin declensions
and conjugations, gently shaking me when my drowsy head sank down over a page of
irregular verbs. It was to her, at her ironing or mending, that I read my first Shakspere,
and her old text-book on mythology was the first that ever came into my empty hands.
She taught me my scales and exercises on the little parlour organ which her husband had
bought her after fifteen years during which she had not so much as seen a musical 
instrument. She would sit beside me by the hour, darning and counting, while I struggled
with the “Joyous Farmer.” She seldom talked to me about music, and I understood why.
Once when I had been doggedly beating out some easy passages from an old score of
Euryanthe I had found among her music books, she came up to me and, putting her hands
over my eyes, gently drew my head back upon her shoulder, saying tremulously, “Don’t love
it so well, Clark, or it may be taken from you.”…
At two o’clock the Symphony Orchestra was to give a Wagner program, and I intended
to take my aunt; though, as I conversed with her, I grew doubtful about her enjoyment of
it. I suggested our visiting the Conservatory and the Common before lunch, but she seemed
altogether too timid to wish to venture out. She questioned me absently about various
changes in the city, but she was chiefly concerned that she had forgotten to leave
instructions about feeding half-skimmed milk to a certain weakling calf, “old Maggie’s calf,
you know, Clark,” she explained, evidently having forgotten how long I had been away.
She was further troubled because she had neglected to tell her daughter about the freshly-
opened kit of mackerel in the cellar, which would spoil if it were not used directly. …
The first number [of the concert] was the Tannhauser overture. When the horns drew
out the first strain of the Pilgrim’s chorus, Aunt Georgiana clutched my coat sleeve. Then it
was I first realized that for her this broke a silence of thirty years. With the battle between
the two motives, with the frenzy of the Venusberg theme and its ripping of strings, there
came to me an overwhelming sense of the waste and wear we are so powerless to combat;
and I saw again the tall, naked house on the prairie, black and grim as a wooden fortress;
the black pond where I had learned to swim, its margin pitted with sun-dried cattle tracks;
the rain gullied clay banks about the naked house, the four dwarf ash seedlings where the
dish-cloths were always hung to dry before the kitchen door. The world there was the flat
world of the ancients; to the east, a cornfield that stretched to daybreak; to the west, a corral
that reached to sunset; between, the conquests of peace, dearer-bought than those of war. …
Her lip quivered and she hastily put her handkerchief up to her mouth. From behind it
she murmured, “And you have been hearing this ever since you left me, Clark?” Her
question was the gentlest and saddest of reproaches. …
The deluge of sound poured on and on; I never knew what she found in the shining
current of it; I never knew how far it bore her, or past what happy islands. From the
trembling of her face I could well believe that before the last number she had been carried
out where the myriad graves are, into the grey, nameless burying grounds of the sea; or into
some world of death vaster yet, where, from the beginning of the world, hope has lain down
with hope and dream with dream and, renouncing, slept. …
I spoke to my aunt. She burst into tears and sobbed pleadingly. “I don’t want to go,
Clark, I don’t want to go!”
I understood. For her, just outside the concert hall, lay the black pond with the cattle-
tracked bluffs; the tall, unpainted house, with weather-curled boards, naked as a tower; the
crook-backed ash seedlings where the dish-cloths hung to dry; the gaunt, moulting turkeys
picking up refuse about the kitchen door. }}
&&—Willa Cather
excerpted and adapted from “A Wagner Matinée”
Youth and the Bright Medusa, April 1920&&
[[1 A primary function of the first paragraph is to
(1) establish the reason for the meeting
(2) create an atmosphere of mystery
(3) identify preferences of the narrator’s aunt
(4) reveal flaws in the narrator’s character
2 In lines 1 through 9, the commentary about
the letter implies that the narrator believes his
uncle is
(1) uncomfortable with changes
(2) careless about details
(3) angry with his wife
(4) disappointed at his decision
3 The details in lines 13 through 20 suggest that in
her youth Aunt Georgiana was
(1) courageous yet hesitant
(2) compassionate yet critical
(3) resourceful yet cautious
(4) intelligent yet impulsive
4 Line 27, “For thirty years my aunt had not been
farther than fifty miles from the homestead”
reinforces a sense of
(1) discomfort (3) isolation
(2) happiness (4) affection
5 Which statement from the passage best explains
the narrator’s “reverential affection” (line 29) for
his Aunt Georgiana?
(1) “It was to her, at her ironing or mending,
that I read my first Shakspere” (line 34)
(2) “ ‘Don’t love it so well, Clark, or it may be
taken from you’ ” (lines 42 and 43)
(3) “Her lip quivered and she hastily put her
handkerchief up to her mouth” (line 64)
(4) “I never knew how far it bore her, or past
what happy islands” (line 68)
6 Lines 36 through 38 develop a central theme by
(1) recalling the husband’s generosity in
supporting the narrator’s music lessons
(2) suggesting that the narrator resented his
music lessons
(3) emphasizing the role of discipline in
developing Aunt Georgiana’s musical talent
(4) implying that Aunt Georgiana missed having
music in her life
7 In line 39, when the narrator states that he
“understood why,” he is implying that his Aunt
Georgiana
(1) knew little about current musical trends
(2) avoided talking about his musical skills
(3) realized what she has given up
(4) needed some recognition of her ability
8 Lines 47 through 52 contribute to a central idea
by depicting Aunt Georgiana’s
(1) concern for daily responsibilities
(2) desire for cultural experiences
(3) fear of future separations
(4) fixation on painful memories
9 The author’s choice of how to end the story
(lines 73 through 78) places emphasis on Aunt
Georgiana’s
(1) bleak future (3) domestic skills
(2) unusual lifestyle (4) hostile attitude
10 Which quotation best reflects the narrator’s
realization resulting from Aunt Georgiana’s visit?
(1) “He requested me to meet her at the station
and render her whatever services might be
necessary” (lines 6 and 7)
(2) “At two o’clock the Symphony Orchestra was
to give a Wagner program, and I intended to
take my aunt” (lines 44 and 45)
(3) “there came to me an overwhelming sense of
the waste and wear we are so powerless to
combat” (lines 56 and 57)
(4) “sound poured on and on; I never knew
what she found in the shining current of it”
(lines 67 and 68) ]]
##June 2017##
{{
In 1973, a book claiming that plants were sentient beings that feel emotions, prefer
classical music to rock and roll, and can respond to the unspoken thoughts of humans
hundreds of miles away landed on the New York Times best-seller list for nonfiction.
“The Secret Life of Plants,” by Peter Tompkins and Christopher Bird, presented a beguiling
mashup of legitimate plant science, quack experiments, and mystical nature worship that
captured the public imagination at a time when New Age thinking was seeping into the
mainstream. The most memorable passages described the experiments of a former C.I.A.
polygraph expert named Cleve Backster, who, in 1966, on a whim, hooked up a
galvanometer to the leaf of a dracaena, a houseplant that he kept in his office. To his
astonishment, Backster found that simply by imagining the dracaena being set on fire
he could make it rouse the needle of the polygraph machine, registering a surge of electrical
activity suggesting that the plant felt stress. “Could the plant have been reading his mind?”
the authors ask. “Backster felt like running into the street and shouting to the world,
‘Plants can think!’ ” …
In the ensuing years, several legitimate plant scientists tried to reproduce the “Backster
effect” without success. Much of the science in “The Secret Life of Plants” has been
discredited. But the book had made its mark on the culture. Americans began talking to
their plants and playing Mozart for them, and no doubt many still do. This might seem
harmless enough; there will probably always be a strain of romanticism running through our
thinking about plants. (Luther Burbank and George Washington Carver both reputedly
talked to, and listened to, the plants they did such brilliant work with.) But in the view of
many plant scientists “The Secret Life of Plants” has done lasting damage to their field.
According to Daniel Chamovitz, an Israeli biologist who is the author of the recent book
“What a Plant Knows,” Tompkins and Bird “stymied important research on plant behavior
as scientists became wary of any studies that hinted at parallels between animal senses and
plant senses.” Others contend that “The Secret Life of Plants” led to “self-censorship”
among researchers seeking to explore the “possible homologies between neurobiology and
phytobiology”; that is, the possibility that plants are much more intelligent and much more
like us than most people think—capable of cognition, communication, information
processing, computation, learning and memory. …
Indeed, many of the most impressive capabilities of plants can be traced to their unique
existential predicament as beings rooted to the ground and therefore unable to pick up and
move when they need something or when conditions turn unfavorable. The “sessile life
style,” as plant biologists term it, calls for an extensive and nuanced understanding of one’s
immediate environment, since the plant has to find everything it needs, and has to defend
itself, while remaining fixed in place. A highly developed sensory apparatus is required
to locate food and identify threats. Plants have evolved between fifteen and twenty distinct
senses, including analogues of our five: smell and taste (they sense and respond to
chemicals in the air or on their bodies); sight (they react differently to various wavelengths
of light as well as to shadow); touch (a vine or a root “knows” when it encounters a solid
object); and, it has been discovered, sound. In a recent experiment, Heidi Appel, a chemical
ecologist at the University of Missouri, found that, when she played a recording of 
a caterpillar chomping a leaf for a plant that hadn’t been touched, the sound primed the
plant’s genetic machinery to produce defense chemicals. Another experiment, done in
Mancuso’s lab and not yet published, found that plant roots would seek out a buried pipe
through which water was flowing even if the exterior of the pipe was dry, which suggested
that plants somehow “hear” the sound of flowing water. …
Scientists have since found that the tips of the plant roots, in addition to sensing gravity,
moisture, light, pressure, and hardness, can also sense volume, nitrogen, phosphorus, salt,
various toxins, microbes, and chemical signals from neighboring plants. Roots about to
encounter an impenetrable obstacle or a toxic substance change course before they make
contact with it. Roots can tell whether nearby roots are self or other and, if other, kin or
stranger. Normally, plants compete for root space with strangers, but, when researchers put
four closely related Great Lakes sea-rocket plants (Cakile edentula) in the same pot,
the plants restrained their usual competitive behaviors and shared resources.
Somehow, a plant gathers and integrates all this information about its environment, and
then “decides”—some scientists deploy the quotation marks, indicating metaphor at work;
others drop them—in precisely what direction to deploy its roots or its leaves. Once the
definition of “behavior” expands to include such things as a shift in the trajectory of a root,
a reallocation of resources, or the emission of a powerful chemical, plants begin to look like
much more active agents, responding to environmental cues in ways more subtle or
adaptive than the word “instinct” would suggest. “Plants perceive competitors and grow
away from them,” Rick Karban, a plant ecologist at U.C. Davis, explained, when I asked him
for an example of plant decision-making. “They are more leery of actual vegetation than
they are of inanimate objects, and they respond to potential competitors before actually
being shaded by them.” These are sophisticated behaviors, but, like most plant behaviors,
to an animal they’re either invisible or really, really slow.
The sessile life style also helps account for plants’ extraordinary gift for biochemistry,
which far exceeds that of animals and, arguably, of human chemists. (Many drugs, from
aspirin to opiates, derive from compounds designed by plants.) Unable to run away, plants
deploy a complex molecular vocabulary to signal distress, deter or poison enemies, and
recruit animals to perform various services for them. A recent study in Science found that
the caffeine produced by many plants may function not only as a defense chemical, as had
previously been thought, but in some cases as a psychoactive drug in their nectar.
The caffeine encourages bees to remember a particular plant and return to it, making them
more faithful and effective pollinators.
One of the most productive areas of plant research in recent years has been plant
signalling. Since the early nineteen-eighties, it has been known that when a plant’s leaves
are infected or chewed by insects they emit volatile chemicals that signal other leaves to
mount a defense. Sometimes this warning signal contains information about the identity of
the insect, gleaned from the taste of its saliva. Depending on the plant and the attacker, the
defense might involve altering the leaf’s flavor or texture, or producing toxins or other
compounds that render the plant’s flesh less digestible to herbivores. When antelopes
browse acacia trees, the leaves produce tannins that make them unappetizing and difficult
to digest. When food is scarce and acacias are overbrowsed, it has been reported, the trees
produce sufficient amounts of toxin to kill the animals. …
All species face the same existential challenges—obtaining food, defending themselves,
reproducing—but under wildly varying circumstances, and so they have evolved wildly 
different tools in order to survive. Brains come in handy for creatures that move around
a lot; but they’re a disadvantage for ones that are rooted in place. Impressive as it is to us,
self-consciousness is just another tool for living, good for some jobs, unhelpful for others.
That humans would rate this particular adaptation so highly is not surprising, since it has
been the shining destination of our long evolutionary journey, along with the
epiphenomenon of self-consciousness that we call “free will.” … }}
&&—Michael Pollan
excerpted from “The Intelligent Plant”
The New Yorker, December 23 & 30, 2013 
&&
[[15 The first paragraph conveys a sense of
(1) caution	 (3) excitement
(2) accusation (4) relief
16 The details in the first paragraph serve mainly to
establish the
(1) relationship between plant science and
musical trends
(2) difference between houseplants and wild
plants
(3) importance of forensic science for theories
of plant behavior
(4) impact of early studies of plant behavior on
current research
17 The author uses the word “But” in line 17 to
(1) express the controversial nature of 

“The Secret Life of Plants”

(2) compare “The Secret Life of Plants” 

with “What a Plant Knows”

(3) express the similarities between certain
types of plants
(4) compare the learning ability of particular
types of plants
18 A primary purpose of the details in lines 37
through 41 is to indicate a connection
(1) among diverse plant species
(2) among several independent studies
(3) between humans and plants
(4) between predators and prey
19 The use of quotation marks in lines 57 and 59
acknowledges the presence of
(1) deception (3) confusion
(2) debate	 (4) resentment
20 Lines 58 through 62 support a central idea
suggesting that plants
(1) resist cooperation (3) produce sound
(2) avoid modification (4) possess intent
21 The evidence provided in lines 72 through 76
demonstrates that plants may
(1) develop symbiotic relationships
(2) attack weaker organisms
(3) waste essential resources
(4) produce genetic mutations
22 The term “plant signalling” (lines 77 and 78) refers
to the way plants
(1) reproduce with similar species
(2) protect themselves from predators
(3) react to human contact
(4) adapt themselves to climate
23 The final paragraph contributes to a central idea
by suggesting that
(1) humans have acquired superior characteristics
(2) species develop according to their own needs
(3) plants would benefit from having selfawareness
(4) scientists have dismissed important findings
24 The text’s credibility relies on the author’s
use of
(1) order of importance
(2) extended comparison
(3) observable evidence
(4) personal anecdotes 
]]
##June2017##

{{…As we traveled, we entered time and began to trouble it, to pester it apart or into some
kind of change. On the short nights we sat by firelight and looked at the moon’s long face
on water. Dora-Rouge would lie on the beaver blankets and tell us what place we would
pass on the next day. She’d look at the stars in the shortening night and say, “the Meeting
Place,” or “God Island.” True to her word, the next day we reached those places. …
Now, looking back, I understand how easily we lost track of things. The time we’d been
teasing apart, unraveled. And now it began to unravel us as we entered a kind of
timelessness. Wednesday was the last day we called by name, and truly, we no longer
needed time. We were lost from it, and lost in this way, I came alive. It was as if I’d slept
for years, and was now awake. The others felt it, too. Cell by cell, all of us were taken in by
water and by land, swallowed a little at a time. What we’d thought of as our lives and being
on earth was gone, and now the world was made up of pathways of its own invention.
We were only one of the many dreams of earth. And I knew we were just a small dream.
But there was a place inside the human that spoke with land, that entered dreaming,
in the way that people in the north found direction in their dreams. They dreamed
charts of land and currents of water. They dreamed where food animals lived. These dreams
they called hunger maps and when they followed those maps, they found their prey.
It was the language animals and humans had in common. People found their cures in the
same way. …
For my own part in this dreaming, as soon as I left time, when Thursday and Friday
slipped away, plants began to cross my restless sleep in abundance. A tendril reached
through darkness, a first sharp leaf came up from the rich ground of my sleeping, opened
upward from the place in my body that knew absolute truth. It wasn’t a seed that had been
planted there, not a cultivated growing, but a wild one, one that had been there all along,
waiting. I saw vines creeping forward. Inside the thin lid of an eye, petals opened, and there
was pollen at the center of each flower. Field, forest, swamp. I knew how they breathed at
night, and that they were linked to us in that breath. It was the oldest bond of survival.
I was devoted to woods the wind walked through, to mosses and lichens. Somewhere in
my past, I had lost the knowing of this opening light of life, the taking up of minerals from
dark ground, the magnitude of thickets and brush. Now I found it once again. Sleep
changed me. I remembered things I’d forgotten, how a hundred years ago, leaves reached
toward sunlight, plants bent into currents of water. Something persistent nudged me and it
had morning rain on its leaves.
Maybe the roots of dreaming are in the soil of dailiness, or in the heart, or in another
place without words, but when they come together and grow, they are like the seeds of
hydrogen and the seeds of oxygen that together create ocean, lake, and ice. In this way,
the plants and I joined each other. They entangled me in their stems and vines and it was
a beautiful entanglement. …
Some mornings as we packed our things, set out across water, the world was the color
of copper, a flood of sun arrived from the east, and a thick mist rose up from black earth.
Other mornings, heating water over the fire, we’d see the world covered with fog, and
the birdsongs sounded forlorn and far away. There were days when we traveled as many as
thirty miles. Others we traveled no more than ten. There were times when I resented the
work, and days I worked so hard even Agnes’ liniment and aspirin would not relax
my aching shoulders and I would crave ice, even a single chip of it, cold and shining. On
other days I felt a deep contentment as I poled inside shallow currents or glided across
a new wide lake.
We were in the hands of nature. In these places things turned about and were other
than what they seemed. In silence, I pulled through the water and saw how a river appeared
through rolling fog and emptied into the lake. One day, a full-tailed fox moved inside the
shadows of trees, then stepped into a cloud. New senses came to me. I was equal to the
other animals, hearing as they heard, moving as they moved, seeing as they saw.
One night we stayed on an island close to the decaying, moss-covered pieces of a boat.
Its remains looked like the ribs of a large animal. In the morning, sun was a dim light
reaching down through the branches of trees. Pollen floated across the dark water and
gathered, yellow and life-giving, along the place where water met land. …
One evening it seemed cooler. The air had a different feel, rarefied, clean, and thin.
Wolves in the distance were singing and their voices made a sound that seemed to lie upon
the land, like a cloud covering the world from one edge of the horizon to the other. We sat
around the fire and listened, the light on our faces, our eyes soft. Agnes warmed her hands
over the flames.
There was a shorter time of darkness every night, but how beautiful the brief nights, with
the stars and the wolves. …
Sometimes I felt there were eyes around us, peering through trees and fog. Maybe it
was the eyes of land and creatures regarding us, taking our measure. And listening to the
night, I knew there was another horizon, beyond the one we could see. And all of it was
storied land, land where deities walked, where people traveled, desiring to be one with
infinite space.
We were full and powerful, wearing the face of the world, floating in silence.
Dora-Rouge said, “Yes, I believe we’ve always been lost,” as we traveled through thick-
grown rushes, marsh, and water so shallow our paddles touched bottom.
The four of us became like one animal. We heard inside each other in a tribal way.
I understood this at once and was easy with it. With my grandmothers, there was no such
thing as loneliness. Before, my life had been without all its ears, eyes, without all its
knowings. Now we, the four of us, all had the same eyes, and when Dora-Rouge pointed
a bony finger and said, “This way,” we instinctively followed that crooked finger.
I never felt lost. I felt newly found, opening, like the tiny eggs we found in a pond one
day, fertile and transparent. I bent over them. The life was already moving inside them,
like an eye or heartbeat. One day we passed alongside cliff walls that bore red, ancient
drawings of moose and bear. These were said to have been painted not by humans, but by
spirits. …
}}
&&—Linda Hogan
excerpted from “Solar Storms,” 1995
Scribner&&
[[1 In lines 3 through 5, the narrator portrays DoraRouge as
(1) compassionate (3) knowledgeable
(2) detached (4) misguided
2 In line 13, the narrator compares people’s lives to
dreams in order to illustrate the idea of
(1) resourcefulness (3) vulnerability
(2) individuality (4) insignificance
3 Which phrase from the text best illustrates the
meaning of “tendril” as used in line 21?
(1) “I saw vines creeping forward” (line 25)
(2) “there was pollen at the center” (lines 25
and 26)
(3) “Field, forest, swamp” (line 26)
(4) “woods the wind walked through” (line 28)
4 The imagery in lines 25 through 28 can best be
described as
(1) amusing (3) confusing
(2) threatening (4) enlightening
5 The description in lines 48 through 52 creates a
sense of
(1) transformation (3) division
(2) isolation (4) vindication
6 The phrase, “We were full and powerful, wearing
the face of the world,” (line 69) suggests that the
group
(1) believed they were something they were not
(2) developed a kinship with the environment
(3) became outwardly proud and aggressive
(4) adopted a casual attitude toward nature
7 The language use in lines 77 through 81 serves to
(1) link the past with the future
(2) continue an ongoing struggle
(3) present a cultural dilemma
(4) clarify the need for cooperation
8 The passage is primarily developed through the
use of
(1) rhetorical questions
(2) comparison and contrast
(3) parallel structure
(4) personal narrative
9 The passage as a whole supports the theme that
with
(1) approval of society comes cultural freedom
(2) clarity of mind comes connection of spirit
(3) support of others comes environmental
change
(4) passage of time comes acceptance of nature
10 Which quotation best supports a central idea of
the passage?
(1) “Maybe the roots of dreaming are in the soil
of dailiness” (line 34)
(2) “On other days I felt a deep contentment as
I poled inside shallow currents or glided
across a new wide lake” (lines 45 through 47)
(3) “The air had a different feel, rarefied, clean,
and thin” (line 57)
(4) “And listening to the night, I knew there was
another horizon, beyond the one we could see”
(lines 65 and 66)
]]
##August 2017##

{{Jian Lin was 14 years old in 1973, when the Chinese government under Mao Zedong
recruited him for a student science team called “the earthquake watchers.” After a series of
earthquakes that had killed thousands in northern China, the country’s seismologists
thought that if they augmented their own research by having observers keep an eye out for
anomalies like snakes bolting early from their winter dens and erratic well-water levels,
they might be able to do what no scientific body had managed before: issue an earthquake
warning that would save thousands of lives.
In the winter of 1974, the earthquake watchers were picking up some suspicious signals
near the city of Haicheng. Panicked chickens were squalling and trying to escape their pens;
water levels were falling in wells. Seismologists had also begun noticing a telltale pattern of
small quakes. “They were like popcorn kernels,” Lin tells me, “popping up all over the
general area.” Then, suddenly, the popping stopped, just as it had before a catastrophic
earthquake in 1966 that killed more than 8,000. “Like ‘the calm before the storm,’ ”
Lin says. “We have that exact same phrase in Chinese.” On the morning of February 4,
1975, the seismology bureau issued a warning: Haicheng should expect a big earthquake,
and people should move outdoors.
At 7:36 p.m., a magnitude 7.0 quake struck. The city was nearly leveled, but only about
2,000 people were killed. Without the warning, easily 150,000 would have died. “And so you
finally had an earthquake forecast that did indeed save lives,” Lin recalls. “People were
excited. Or, you could say, uplifted. Uplifted is a great word for it.” But uplift turned to
heartbreak the very next year, when a 7.5 quake shattered the city of Tangshan without so
much as a magnitude 4 to introduce it. When the quake hit the city of 1.6 million at 3:42
a.m., it killed nearly 250,000 people, most of whom were asleep. “If there was any moment
in my life when I was scared of earthquakes, that was it,” Lin says. “You think, what if it
happened to you? And it could. I decided that if I could do anything—anything—to save
lives lost to earthquakes, it would be worth the effort.”
Lin is now a senior scientist of geophysics at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
in Massachusetts, where he spends his time studying not the scurrying of small animals and
fluctuating electrical current between trees (another fabled warning sign), but seismometer
readings, GPS coordinates, and global earthquake-notification reports. He and his longtime
collaborator, Ross Stein of the U.S. Geological Survey, are champions of a theory that could
enable scientists to forecast earthquakes with more precision and speed.
Some established geophysicists insist that all earthquakes are random, yet everyone
agrees that aftershocks are not. Instead, they follow certain empirical laws. Stein, Lin, and
their collaborators hypothesized that many earthquakes classified as main shocks are
actually aftershocks, and they went looking for the forces that cause faults to fail.
Their work was in some ways heretical: For a long time, earthquakes were thought to
release only the stress immediately around them; an earthquake that happened in one
place would decrease the possibility of another happening nearby. But that didn’t explain
earthquake sequences like the one that rumbled through the desert and mountains east of
Los Angeles in 1992. The series began on April 23 with a 6.2 near the town of Joshua Tree;
two months later, on June 28, a 7.3 struck less than 15 miles away in the desert town of
Landers. Three and a half hours after that, a 6.5 hit the town of Big Bear, in the mountains
overlooking the Mojave. The Big Bear quake was timed like an aftershock, except it was too
far off the Landers earthquake’s fault rupture. When Lin, Stein, and Geoffrey King of the
Paris Geophysical Institute got together to analyze it, they decided to ignore the distance
rule and treat it just as a different kind of aftershock. Their ensuing report, “Static Stress
Changes and the Triggering of Earthquakes,” became one of the decade’s most-cited
earthquake research papers.
Rocks can be subject to two kinds of stresses: the “clamping” stress that pushes them
together, and the “shear” stress they undergo as they slide past each other. Together, these
stresses are known as Coulomb stress, named for Charles-Augustin de Coulomb, an 18th-
century French physicist. Coulomb calculations had been used for years in engineering, to
find the failure points of various building materials, but they’d never been applied properly
to faults. It turned out, though, that faults in the ground behave much like rocks in the
laboratory: they come unglued when shear stress exceeds the friction and pressure
(the clamping stress) holding them together. When Stein, Lin, and King applied the
Coulomb model to the California sequence, they found that most of the earthquakes had
occurred in areas where the shifting of the ground had caused increased stress.
In 1997, Stein and two other geologists using the model found that there was a
12 percent chance that a magnitude 7 or greater would hit near Izmit, Turkey, within
30 years; two years later, on August 17, 1999, a magnitude 7.4 destroyed the city, which wasn’t
designed to withstand such a tremor. A Turkish geologist named Aykut Barka quickly wrote
up a paper warning that Coulomb stress from the Izmit quake could trigger a similar
rupture near Düzce, a town roughly 60 miles east. His work persuaded authorities there to
close school buildings damaged during the Izmit shaking. On November 12, a segment of
the North Anatolian Fault gave way, in a magnitude 7.2. The empty school buildings
collapsed.
Lin and Stein both admit that Coulomb stress doesn’t explain all earthquakes. Indeed,
some geophysicists, like Karen Felzer, of the U.S. Geological Survey, think their hypothesis
gives short shrift6 to the impact that dynamic stress—the actual rattling of a quake in
motion—has on neighboring faults.
In the aftermath of the disastrous March 11 To-hoku quake, both camps are looking at
its well-monitored aftershocks (including several within 100 miles of Tokyo) for answers.
Intriguingly, it was preceded by a flurry of earthquakes, one as large as magnitude 7.2,
that may have been foreshocks, although no one thought so at the time; the researchers are
trying to determine what those early quakes meant.
When I ask Lin whether California, where I live, is next, he laughs. “I understand that
the public now thinks that we’ve entered a global earthquake cluster. Even my own mother
in China thinks that. But there’s no scientific evidence whatsoever to suggest that the
earthquake in New Zealand triggered the earthquake in Japan, or Japan will trigger one in
California.” Still, Lin and his colleagues do wonder whether To-hoku has pushed
neighboring faults closer to rupture. “I am particularly interested in how this earthquake
might have changed the potential of future earthquakes to the south, even closer to Tokyo,”
Lin tells me. “There, even a much smaller earthquake could be devastating.”
}}
&&—Judith Lewis Mernit
“Is San Francisco Next?”
The Atlantic, June 2011
&&
[[15 As used in line 5, the word “anomalies” most
nearly means
(1) seasonal changes
(2) odd occurrences
(3) dangerous incidents
(4) scheduled events
16 The first paragraph contributes to a central idea
in the text by
(1) contributing historical facts
(2) contrasting early theories
(3) comparing two philosophies
(4) challenging cultural beliefs
17 The figurative language in lines 11 and 12
conveys a sense of
(1) disbelief (3) disappointment
(2) apathy (4) urgency
18 The contrast drawn between the Haicheng and
Tangshan earthquakes (lines 8 through 26)
contributes to a central idea that earthquakes are
(1) preceded by reliable signs
(2) controlled by observable factors
(3) not always predictable
(4) not often studied
19 The purpose of lines 27 through 30 is to emphasize
that Jian Lin
(1) relied on his past experience to identify
earthquakes
(2) modified his methods of observing
earthquakes
(3) changed his understanding about the causes
of earthquakes
(4) disagreed with his co-researcher on the
measurement of earthquakes
20 The word “champions” as used in line 31 most
nearly means
(1) advisers (3) adaptors
(2) supporters (4) survivors
21 Which statement reflects a long-held belief
disproved by Lin, Stein, and King?
(1) “many earthquakes classified as main shocks
are actually aftershocks” (lines 35 and 36)
(2) “an earthquake that happened in one place
would decrease the possibility of another
happening nearby” (lines 38 and 39)
(3) “Rocks can be subject to two kinds of
stresses” (line 50)
(4) “faults in the ground behave much like rocks
in the laboratory” (lines 55 and 56)
22 According to lines 50 through 59, seismologists
realized that the California sequence of earthquakes happened because
(1) shear stress forced rocks to fuse together
(2) clamping stress caused rocks to move apart
(3) shear stress was greater than clamping stress
(4) clamping stress balanced the shear stress
23 Throughout the text, the author portrays Jian Lin as
(1) satisfied (3) cautious
(2) superstitious (4) dedicated
24 Jian Lin’s research regarding earthquakes can
best be described as
(1) flawed by inconsistent methodology
(2) concurrent with prior theories
(3) challenged by conflicting findings
(4) important to future studies]]
##August 2017##
{{It had been noisy and crowded at the Milligan’s and Mrs. Bishop had eaten too many
little sandwiches and too many iced cakes, so that now, out in the street, the air felt good to
her, even if it was damp and cold. At the entrance of the apartment house, she took out her
change purse and looked through it and found that by counting the pennies, too, she had
just eighty-seven cents, which wasn’t enough for a taxi from Tenth Street to Seventy-Third.
It was horrid never having enough money in your purse, she thought. Playing bridge, when
she lost, she often had to give I.O.U.’s and it was faintly embarrassing, although she always
managed to make them good. She resented Lila Hardy who could say, “Can anyone change
a ten?” and who could take ten dollars from her small, smart bag while the other women
scurried about for change.
She decided it was too late to take a bus and that she might as well walk over to the
subway, although the air down there would probably make her head ache. It was drizzling
a little and the sidewalks were wet. And as she stood on the corner waiting for the traffic
lights to change, she felt horribly sorry for herself. She remembered as a young girl, she had
always assumed she would have lots of money when she was older. She had planned what
to do with it — what clothes to buy and what upholstery she would have in her car. …
The air in the subway was worse than usual and she stood on the local side waiting for
a train. People who took the expresses seemed to push so and she felt tired and wanted to
sit down. When the train came, she took a seat near the door and, although inwardly she
was seething with rebellion, her face took on the vacuous look of other faces in the subway.
At Eighteenth Street, a great many people got on and she found her vision blocked by
a man who had come in and was hanging to the strap in front of her. He was tall and thin
and his overcoat which hung loosely on him and swayed with the motion of the train
smelled unpleasantly of damp wool. The buttons of the overcoat were of imitation leather
and the button directly in front of Mrs. Bishop’s eyes evidently had come off and been
sewed back on again with black thread, which didn’t match the coat at all.
It was what is known as a swagger coat but there was nothing very swagger about it
now. The sleeve that she could see was almost threadbare around the cuff and a small shred
from the lining hung down over the man’s hand. She found herself looking intently at his
hand. It was long and pallid and not too clean. The nails were very short as though they
had been bitten and there was a discolored callous on his second finger where he probably
held his pencil. Mrs. Bishop, who prided herself on her powers of observation, put him in
the white collar class. He most likely, she thought, was the father of a large family and had
a hard time sending them all through school. He undoubtedly never spent money on
himself. That would account for the shabbiness of his overcoat. And he was probably
horribly afraid of losing his job. His house was always noisy and smelled of cooking.
Mrs. Bishop couldn’t decide whether to make his wife a fat slattern or to have her an 
invalid. Either would be quite consistent.
She grew warm with sympathy for the man. Every now and then he gave a slight cough,
and that increased her interest and her sadness. It was a soft, pleasant sadness and made
her feel resigned to life. She decided that she would smile at him when she got off. It would
be the sort of smile that couldn’t help but make him feel better, as it would be very obvious
that she understood and was sorry.
But by the time the train reached Seventy-Second Street, the closeness of the air and
the confusion of her own worries had made her feelings less poignant, so that her smile,
when she gave it, lacked something. The man looked away embarrassed. 
Her apartment was too hot and the smell of broiling chops sickened her after
the enormous tea she had eaten. She could see Maude, her maid, setting the table in the
dining-room for dinner. Mrs. Bishop had bought smart little uniforms for her, but there was
nothing smart about Maude and the uniforms never looked right. …
For a minute she stood in the doorway trying to control herself and then she walked
over to a window and opened it roughly. “Goodness,” she said. “Can’t we ever have any air
in here?”
Robert gave a slight start and sat up. “Hello, Mollie,” he said. “You home?”
“Yes, I’m home,” she answered. “I came home in the subway.”
Her voice was reproachful. She sat down in the chair facing him and spoke more quietly
so that Maude couldn’t hear what she was saying. “Really, Robert,” she said, “it was
dreadful. I came out from the tea in all that drizzle and couldn’t even take a taxi home.
I had just exactly eighty-seven cents. Just eighty-seven cents!”
“Say,” he said. “That’s a shame. Here.” He reached in his pocket and took out a small
roll of crumpled bills. “Here,” he repeated. And handed her one. She saw that it was five
dollars.
Mrs. Bishop shook her head. “No, Robert,” she told him. “That isn’t the point. The point
is that I’ve really got to have some sort of allowance. It isn’t fair to me. I never have any
money! Never! It’s got so it’s positively embarrassing!”
Mr. Bishop fingered the five dollar bill thoughtfully. “I see,” he said. “You want an
allowance. What’s the matter? Don’t I give you money every time you ask for it?”
“Well, yes,” Mrs. Bishop admitted. “But it isn’t like my own. An allowance would be
more like my own.”…
Mr. Bishop sat turning the five dollar bill over and over in his hand. “About how much
do you think you should have?” he asked.
“Fifty dollars a month,” she told him. And her voice was harsh and strained. “That’s the
very least I can get along on. Why, Lila Hardy would laugh at fifty dollars a month.”
“Fifty dollars a month,” Mr. Bishop repeated. He coughed a little, nervously, and
ran his fingers through his hair. “I’ve had a lot of things to attend to this month. But, well,
maybe if you would be willing to wait until the first of next month, I might manage.”
“Oh, next month will be perfectly all right,” she said, feeling it wiser not to press
her victory. “But don’t forget all about it. Because I shan’t.”
As she walked toward the closet to put away her wraps, she caught sight of Robert’s
overcoat on the chair near the door. He had tossed it carelessly across the back of the chair 
as he came in. One sleeve was hanging down and the vibration of her feet on the floor had
made it swing gently back and forth. She saw that the cuff was badly worn and a bit of the
lining showed. It looked dreadfully like the sleeve of the overcoat she had seen in the subway.
And, suddenly, looking at it, she had a horrible sinking feeling, as though she were falling
in a dream. 
}}
&&—Sally Benson
excerpted from “The Overcoat”
The American Mercury, July, 1941 
&&
[[1 The first paragraph creates a sense of
(1) submission (3) frustration
(2) urgency (4) hopelessness
2 The use of the word “although” in line 12 signals
Mrs. Bishop’s
(1) disapproval (3) nervousness
(2) enthusiasm (4) resilience
3 The “soft, pleasant sadness” (line 40) Mrs. Bishop
experiences while listening to the man cough
indicates that she is
(1) discouraged by the illnesses spread on the
subway
(2) inclined to help those in need
(3) pressured to act graciously in uncomfortable
situations
(4) reassured by those who are less fortunate
than she
4 Lines 44 through 46 convey Mrs. Bishop’s
(1) confidence (3) optimism
(2) insincerity (4) hostility
5 Mrs. Bishop’s thoughts in lines 6 through 8
contrast with her statements in lines 64 and 65,
revealing that she
(1) exaggerates her feelings to manipulate her
husband
(2) hoards her money to cheat her friends
(3) demonstrates her neediness to agitate her
husband
(4) flaunts her wealth to impress her friends 
6 The details in lines 74 through 76 suggest that
Mr. Bishop is
(1) puzzled (3) suspicious
(2) uneasy (4) selfish
7 The figurative language in lines 84 and 85 reveals
that Mrs. Bishop is
(1) confused about her values
(2) relieved of her discontent
(3) forced to face reality
(4) pleased to learn the truth
8 In which lines is the central idea of the passage
most clearly revealed?
(1) “there was a discolored callous on his second
finger where he probably held his pencil”
(lines 31 and 32)
(2) “but there was nothing smart about Maude
and the uniforms never looked right” (lines 49 and 50)
(3) “He reached in his pocket and took out a
small roll of crumpled bills” (lines 60 and 61)
(4) “It looked dreadfully like the sleeve of the
overcoat she had seen in the subway”
(line 83)
9 The primary conflict in the passage is Mrs. Bishop’s
(1) perception of herself
(2) relationship with Maude
(3) reluctance to help others
(4) friendship with Lila Hardy ]]
##January 2018##

{{Wherever humans have gone in the world, they have carried with them two things,
language and fire. As they traveled through tropical forests they hoarded the precious
embers of old fires and sheltered them from downpours. When they settled the barren
Arctic, they took with them the memory of fire, and recreated it in stoneware vessels filled
with animal fat. [Charles] Darwin himself considered these the two most significant
achievements of humanity. It is, of course, impossible to imagine a human society that does
not have language, but—given the right climate and an adequacy of raw wild food—could
there be a primitive tribe that survives without cooking? In fact, no such people have ever
been found. Nor will they be, according to a provocative theory by Harvard biologist
Richard Wrangham, who believes that fire is needed to fuel the organ that makes possible
all the other products of culture, language included: the human brain.
Every animal on earth is constrained by its energy budget; the calories obtained from
food will stretch only so far. And for most human beings, most of the time, these calories
are burned not at the gym, but invisibly, in powering the heart, the digestive system and
especially the brain, in the silent work of moving molecules around within and among its
100 billion cells. A human body at rest devotes roughly one-fifth of its energy to the brain,
regardless of whether it is thinking anything useful, or even thinking at all. Thus, the
unprecedented increase in brain size that hominids3 embarked on around 1.8 million years
ago had to be paid for with added calories either taken in or diverted from some other
function in the body. Many anthropologists think the key breakthrough was adding meat to
the diet. But Wrangham and his Harvard colleague Rachel Carmody think that’s only a part
of what was going on in evolution at the time. What matters, they say, is not just how many
calories you can put into your mouth, but what happens to the food once it gets there. How
much useful energy does it provide, after subtracting the calories spent in chewing,
swallowing and digesting? The real breakthrough, they argue, was cooking. …
Food is a subject on which most people have strong opinions, and Wrangham mostly
excuses himself from the moral, political and aesthetic debates it provokes. Impeccably lean
himself, he acknowledges blandly that some people will gain weight on the same diet that
leaves others thin. “Life can be unfair,” he writes in his 2010 book Catching Fire, and his
shrug is almost palpable4 on the page. He takes no position on the philosophical arguments
for and against a raw-food diet, except to point out that it can be quite dangerous for young
children. For healthy adults, it’s “a terrific way to lose weight.”
Which is, in a way, his point: Human beings evolved to eat cooked food. It is literally
possible to starve to death even while filling one’s stomach with raw food. In the wild,
people typically survive only a few months without cooking, even if they can obtain meat.
Wrangham cites evidence that urban raw-foodists, despite year-round access to bananas,
nuts and other high-quality agricultural products, as well as juicers, blenders and
dehydrators, are often underweight. Of course, they may consider this desirable, but
Wrangham considers it alarming that in one study half the women were malnourished to
the point they stopped menstruating. They presumably are eating all they want, and may
even be consuming what appears to be an adequate number of calories, based on standard
USDA [United States Department of Agriculture] tables. There is growing evidence that
these overstate, sometimes to a considerable degree, the energy that the body extracts from
whole raw foods. Carmody explains that only a fraction of the calories in raw starch and
protein are absorbed by the body directly via the small intestine. The remainder passes into
the large bowel, where it is broken down by that organ’s ravenous population of microbes,
which consume the lion’s share for themselves. Cooked food, by contrast, is mostly digested
by the time it enters the colon; for the same amount of calories ingested, the body gets
roughly 30 percent more energy from cooked oat, wheat or potato starch as compared to
raw, and as much as 78 percent from the protein in an egg. In Carmody’s experiments,
animals given cooked food gain more weight than animals fed the same amount of raw food.
And once they’ve been fed on cooked food, mice, at least, seemed to prefer it.
In essence, cooking—including not only heat but also mechanical processes such as
chopping and grinding—outsources some of the body’s work of digestion so that more
energy is extracted from food and less expended in processing it. Cooking breaks down
collagen, the connective tissue in meat, and softens the cell walls of plants to release their
stores of starch and fat. The calories to fuel the bigger brains of successive species of
hominids came at the expense of the energy-intensive tissue in the gut, which was shrinking
at the same time—you can actually see how the barrel-shaped trunk of the apes morphed
into the comparatively narrow-waisted Homo sapiens. Cooking freed up time, as well; the
great apes spend four to seven hours a day just chewing, not an activity that prioritizes the
intellect.
The trade-off between the gut and the brain is the key insight of the “expensive tissue
hypothesis,” proposed by Leslie Aiello and Peter Wheeler in 1995. Wrangham credits this
with inspiring his own thinking—except that Aiello and Wheeler identified meat-eating as
the driver of human evolution, while Wrangham emphasizes cooking. “What could be more
human,” he asks, “than the use of fire?” …
In Wrangham’s view, fire did much more than put a nice brown crust on a haunch of
antelope. Fire detoxifies some foods that are poisonous when eaten raw, and it kills parasites
and bacteria. Again, this comes down to the energy budget. Animals eat raw food without
getting sick because their digestive and immune systems have evolved the appropriate
defenses. Presumably the ancestors of Homo erectus—say, Australopithecus—did as well.
But anything the body does, even on a molecular level, takes energy; by getting the same
results from burning wood, human beings can put those calories to better use in their brains.
Fire, by keeping people warm at night, made fur unnecessary, and without fur hominids
could run farther and faster after prey without overheating. Fire brought hominids out of the
trees; by frightening away nocturnal predators, it enabled Homo erectus to sleep safely on the
ground, which was part of the process by which bipedalism (and perhaps mind-expanding
dreaming) evolved. By bringing people together at one place and time to eat, fire laid the
groundwork for pair bonding and, indeed, for human society. … }}
&&—Jerry Adler
excerpted and adapted from “The Mind on Fire”
Smithsonian.com, June, 2013 
&&
[[15 When the author cites Darwin in lines 5 and 6,
he most likely does so to
(1) stress the equal importance of language and
fire
(2) show scientific theories change over time
(3) suggest migration played a role in evolution
(4) lend credibility to the discussion
16 Lines 9 through 11 serve to
(1) present an argument
(2) explain an image
(3) resolve a controversy
(4) dismiss a counterclaim
17 The phrase “energy budget” (line 12) serves to
emphasize a
(1) reduction of conservation efforts
(2) scarcity of combustible material
(3) limited amount of body fuel
(4) restricted knowledge of resources
18 The physical structure of hominids was altered
(lines 17 through 25) as a result of their increased
(1) meat consumption and changes in food
preparation
(2) diet variety and changes in food preservation
(3) demands for physical exertion
(4) opportunities for problem solving
19 In the context of lines 26 through 32, Wrangham’s
quote “a terrific way to lose weight” is most likely
meant to be
(1) poetic (3) ironic
(2) hostile (4) theoretical
20 According to lines 40 through 44, the “standard
USDA tables” may “overstate” caloric intake
because they do not account for
(1) how the body converts food into calories
(2) the importance of calories from protein
(3) the way calories are measured
(4) how the body adjusts to excessive calories
21 The use of the word “ravenous” (line 46) suggests
that microbes in the large bowel are
(1) deadly (3) healthy
(2) aggressive (4) energizing
22 According to lines 53 through 55, a key benefit of
cooking food is that it
(1) completes the body’s need for collagen
(2) prevents the body from absorbing fat
(3) aids the body in fighting disease
(4) assists the body in digesting food
23 Which statement best contributes to the
development of a central idea in the text?
(1) “ ‘Life can be unfair … palpable on the
page’ ” (lines 29 and 30)
(2) “It is literally possible … with raw food”
(lines 33 and 34)
(3) “And once they’ve been fed … prefer it”
(line 52)
(4) “Animals eat raw food … evolved the
appropriate defenses” (lines 70 through 72)
24 The tone of the passage can best be described as
(1) critical (3) doubtful
(2) informative (4) hopeful ]]
##January 2018##
{{“That woman’s art-jargon1 tires me,” said Clovis to his journalist friend. “She’s so fond
of talking of certain pictures as ‘growing on one,’ as though they were a sort of fungus.”
“That reminds me,” said the journalist, “of the story of Henri Deplis. Have I ever told
it [to] you?”
Clovis shook his head.
“Henri Deplis was by birth a native of the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg. On maturer
reflection he became a commercial traveller. His business activities frequently took him
beyond the limits of the Grand Duchy, and he was stopping in a small town of Northern
Italy when news reached him from home that a legacy from a distant and deceased relative
had fallen to his share.
“It was not a large legacy, even from the modest standpoint of Henri Deplis, but it
impelled him towards some seemingly harmless extravagances. In particular it led him to
patronise local art as represented by the tattoo-needles of Signor Andreas Pincini. Signor
Pincini was, perhaps, the most brilliant master of tattoo craft that Italy had ever known, but
his circumstances were decidedly impoverished, and for the sum of six hundred francs he
gladly undertook to cover his client’s back, from the collar-bone down to the waistline, with
a glowing representation of the Fall of Icarus. The design, when finally developed, was a
slight disappointment to Monsieur Deplis, who had suspected Icarus of being a fortress
taken by Wallenstein in the Thirty Years’ War, but he was more than satisfied with the
execution of the work, which was acclaimed by all who had the privilege of seeing it as
Pincini’s masterpiece.
“It was his greatest effort, and his last. Without even waiting to be paid, the illustrious
craftsman departed this life, and was buried under an ornate tombstone, whose winged
cherubs would have afforded singularly little scope for the exercise of his favourite art.
There remained, however, the widow Pincini, to whom the six hundred francs were due.
And thereupon arose the great crisis in the life of Henri Deplis, traveller of commerce. The
legacy, under the stress of numerous little calls on its substance, had dwindled to very
insignificant proportions, and when a pressing wine bill and sundry other current accounts
had been paid, there remained little more than 430 francs to offer to the widow. The lady
was properly indignant, not wholly, as she volubly explained, on account of the suggested
writing-off of 170 francs, but also at the attempt to depreciate the value of her late
husband’s acknowledged masterpiece. In a week’s time Deplis was obliged to reduce his
offer to 405 francs, which circumstance fanned the widow’s indignation into a fury. She
cancelled the sale of the work of art, and a few days later Deplis learned with a sense of
consternation that she had presented it to the municipality of Bergamo, which had
gratefully accepted it. He left the neighbourhood as unobtrusively as possible, and was
genuinely relieved when his business commands took him to Rome, where he hoped his
identity and that of the famous picture might be lost sight of.
“But he bore on his back the burden of the dead man’s genius. On presenting himself one
day in the steaming corridor of a vapour bath, he was at once hustled back into his clothes
by the proprietor, who was a North Italian, and who emphatically refused to allow the
celebrated Fall of Icarus to be publicly on view without the permission of the municipality
of Bergamo. Public interest and official vigilance increased as the matter became more
widely known, and Deplis was unable to take a simple dip in the sea or river on the hottest
afternoon unless clothed up to the collar-bone in a substantial bathing garment. Later on
the authorities of Bergamo conceived the idea that salt water might be injurious to the
masterpiece, and a perpetual injunction was obtained which debarred the muchly harassed
commercial traveller from sea bathing under any circumstances. Altogether, he was
fervently thankful when his firm of employers found him a new range of activities in the
neighbourhood of Bordeaux. His thankfulness, however, ceased abruptly at the Franco-
Italian frontier. An imposing array of official force barred his departure, and he was sternly
reminded of the stringent law, which forbids the exportation of Italian works of art.
“A diplomatic parley ensued between the Luxemburgian and Italian Governments, and
at one time the European situation became overcast with the possibilities of trouble. But
the Italian Government stood firm; it declined to concern itself in the least with the
fortunes or even the existence of Henri Deplis, commercial traveller, but was immovable in
its decision that the Fall of Icarus (by the late Pincini, Andreas) at present the property of
the municipality of Bergamo, should not leave the country. …
“Meanwhile, the unhappy human background fared no better than before, and it was
not surprising that he drifted into the ranks of Italian anarchists. Four times at least he was
escorted to the frontier as a dangerous and undesirable foreigner, but he was always
brought back as the Fall of Icarus (attributed to Pincini, Andreas, early Twentieth Century).
And then one day, at an anarchist congress at Genoa, a fellow-worker, in the heat of debate,
broke a phial full of corrosive liquid over his back. The red shirt that he was wearing
mitigated the effects, but the Icarus was ruined beyond recognition. His assailant was
severely reprimanded for assaulting a fellow-anarchist and received seven years’
imprisonment for defacing a national art treasure. As soon as he was able to leave the
hospital Henri Deplis was put across the frontier as an undesirable alien.
“In the quieter streets of Paris, especially in the neighbourhood of the Ministry of Fine
Arts, you may sometimes meet a depressed, anxious-looking man, who, if you pass him the
time of day, will answer you with a slight Luxemburgian accent. He nurses the illusion that
he is one of the lost arms of the Venus de Milo, and hopes that the French Government
may be persuaded to buy him. On all other subjects I believe he is tolerably sane.” 
}}
&&—H.H. Munro (“Saki”)
excerpted and adapted from “The Background”
The Chronicles of Clovis, 1912
John Lane, The Bodley Head&&
[[1 Lines 11 through 13 and lines 25 through 29
reveal that Henri Deplis
(1) invests wisely
(2) behaves impulsively
(3) avoids confrontation
(4) resists change
2 The municipality of Bergamo owns the artwork
on Henri Deplis’s back as a result of
(1) a harmless misunderstanding
(2) widow Pincini’s vengeance
(3) a fair exchange
(4) Henri Deplis’s pride
3 As used in line 36, the word “unobtrusively” most
nearly means
(1) reluctantly (3) rebelliously
(2) indecisively (4) inconspicuously
4 The figurative language in line 39 implies that
Henri Deplis feels
(1) the tattoo is a curse to him
(2) responsible for the artist’s death
(3) the tattoo is a thing of beauty
(4) obligated to display the artwork
5 Lines 50 through 52 indicate that Henri Deplis’s
situation causes him to become
(1) successful (3) manipulative
(2) powerless (4) respected
6 It can be inferred that Henri Deplis joins the
“Italian anarchists” (line 60) because he
(1) is afraid for his future
(2) desires wealthy friends
(3) is unconcerned with international politics
(4) seeks gainful employment
7 Lines 65 through 68 support a central idea that
(1) people can achieve their personal goals
(2) governments often choose stability over

change

(3) societies often value objects above individuals
(4) governments can develop reasonable

regulations

8 The phrase “nurses the illusion” (line 71) reveals
that Henri Deplis is
(1) fulfilling his ambitious dream
(2) searching for anonymity
(3) struggling with reality
(4) enjoying his freedom
9 The subject of Henri Deplis’s tattoo implies a
parallel to his
(1) social ignorance (3) sense of humility
(2) economic worth (4) loss of control ]]
##June 2018##
{{“That woman’s art-jargon1 tires me,” said Clovis to his journalist friend. “She’s so fond
of talking of certain pictures as ‘growing on one,’ as though they were a sort of fungus.”
“That reminds me,” said the journalist, “of the story of Henri Deplis. Have I ever told
it [to] you?”
Clovis shook his head.
“Henri Deplis was by birth a native of the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg. On maturer
reflection he became a commercial traveller. His business activities frequently took him
beyond the limits of the Grand Duchy, and he was stopping in a small town of Northern
Italy when news reached him from home that a legacy from a distant and deceased relative
had fallen to his share.
“It was not a large legacy, even from the modest standpoint of Henri Deplis, but it
impelled him towards some seemingly harmless extravagances. In particular it led him to
patronise local art as represented by the tattoo-needles of Signor Andreas Pincini. Signor
Pincini was, perhaps, the most brilliant master of tattoo craft that Italy had ever known, but
his circumstances were decidedly impoverished, and for the sum of six hundred francs he
gladly undertook to cover his client’s back, from the collar-bone down to the waistline, with
a glowing representation of the Fall of Icarus. The design, when finally developed, was a
slight disappointment to Monsieur Deplis, who had suspected Icarus of being a fortress
taken by Wallenstein in the Thirty Years’ War, but he was more than satisfied with the
execution of the work, which was acclaimed by all who had the privilege of seeing it as
Pincini’s masterpiece.
“It was his greatest effort, and his last. Without even waiting to be paid, the illustrious
craftsman departed this life, and was buried under an ornate tombstone, whose winged
cherubs would have afforded singularly little scope for the exercise of his favourite art.
There remained, however, the widow Pincini, to whom the six hundred francs were due.
And thereupon arose the great crisis in the life of Henri Deplis, traveller of commerce. The
legacy, under the stress of numerous little calls on its substance, had dwindled to very
insignificant proportions, and when a pressing wine bill and sundry other current accounts
had been paid, there remained little more than 430 francs to offer to the widow. The lady
was properly indignant, not wholly, as she volubly explained, on account of the suggested
writing-off of 170 francs, but also at the attempt to depreciate the value of her late
husband’s acknowledged masterpiece. In a week’s time Deplis was obliged to reduce his
offer to 405 francs, which circumstance fanned the widow’s indignation into a fury. She
cancelled the sale of the work of art, and a few days later Deplis learned with a sense of
consternation that she had presented it to the municipality of Bergamo, which had
gratefully accepted it. He left the neighbourhood as unobtrusively as possible, and was
genuinely relieved when his business commands took him to Rome, where he hoped his
identity and that of the famous picture might be lost sight of.
“But he bore on his back the burden of the dead man’s genius. On presenting himself one
day in the steaming corridor of a vapour bath, he was at once hustled back into his clothes
by the proprietor, who was a North Italian, and who emphatically refused to allow the
celebrated Fall of Icarus to be publicly on view without the permission of the municipality
of Bergamo. Public interest and official vigilance increased as the matter became more
widely known, and Deplis was unable to take a simple dip in the sea or river on the hottest
afternoon unless clothed up to the collar-bone in a substantial bathing garment. Later on
the authorities of Bergamo conceived the idea that salt water might be injurious to the
masterpiece, and a perpetual injunction was obtained which debarred the muchly harassed
commercial traveller from sea bathing under any circumstances. Altogether, he was
fervently thankful when his firm of employers found him a new range of activities in the
neighbourhood of Bordeaux. His thankfulness, however, ceased abruptly at the Franco-
Italian frontier. An imposing array of official force barred his departure, and he was sternly
reminded of the stringent law, which forbids the exportation of Italian works of art.
“A diplomatic parley ensued between the Luxemburgian and Italian Governments, and
at one time the European situation became overcast with the possibilities of trouble. But
the Italian Government stood firm; it declined to concern itself in the least with the
fortunes or even the existence of Henri Deplis, commercial traveller, but was immovable in
its decision that the Fall of Icarus (by the late Pincini, Andreas) at present the property of
the municipality of Bergamo, should not leave the country. …
“Meanwhile, the unhappy human background fared no better than before, and it was
not surprising that he drifted into the ranks of Italian anarchists. Four times at least he was
escorted to the frontier as a dangerous and undesirable foreigner, but he was always
brought back as the Fall of Icarus (attributed to Pincini, Andreas, early Twentieth Century).
And then one day, at an anarchist congress at Genoa, a fellow-worker, in the heat of debate,
broke a phial full of corrosive liquid over his back. The red shirt that he was wearing
mitigated the effects, but the Icarus was ruined beyond recognition. His assailant was
severely reprimanded for assaulting a fellow-anarchist and received seven years’
imprisonment for defacing a national art treasure. As soon as he was able to leave the
hospital Henri Deplis was put across the frontier as an undesirable alien.
“In the quieter streets of Paris, especially in the neighbourhood of the Ministry of Fine
Arts, you may sometimes meet a depressed, anxious-looking man, who, if you pass him the
time of day, will answer you with a slight Luxemburgian accent. He nurses the illusion that
he is one of the lost arms of the Venus de Milo, and hopes that the French Government
may be persuaded to buy him. On all other subjects I believe he is tolerably sane.” 
}}
&&—H.H. Munro (“Saki”)
excerpted and adapted from “The Background”
The Chronicles of Clovis, 1912
John Lane, The Bodley Head&&
[[1 Lines 11 through 13 and lines 25 through 29
reveal that Henri Deplis
(1) invests wisely
(2) behaves impulsively
(3) avoids confrontation
(4) resists change
2 The municipality of Bergamo owns the artwork
on Henri Deplis’s back as a result of
(1) a harmless misunderstanding
(2) widow Pincini’s vengeance
(3) a fair exchange
(4) Henri Deplis’s pride
3 As used in line 36, the word “unobtrusively” most
nearly means
(1) reluctantly (3) rebelliously
(2) indecisively (4) inconspicuously
4 The figurative language in line 39 implies that
Henri Deplis feels
(1) the tattoo is a curse to him
(2) responsible for the artist’s death
(3) the tattoo is a thing of beauty
(4) obligated to display the artwork
5 Lines 50 through 52 indicate that Henri Deplis’s
situation causes him to become
(1) successful (3) manipulative
(2) powerless (4) respected
6 It can be inferred that Henri Deplis joins the
“Italian anarchists” (line 60) because he
(1) is afraid for his future
(2) desires wealthy friends
(3) is unconcerned with international politics
(4) seeks gainful employment
7 Lines 65 through 68 support a central idea that
(1) people can achieve their personal goals
(2) governments often choose stability over

change

(3) societies often value objects above individuals
(4) governments can develop reasonable

regulations

8 The phrase “nurses the illusion” (line 71) reveals
that Henri Deplis is
(1) fulfilling his ambitious dream
(2) searching for anonymity
(3) struggling with reality
(4) enjoying his freedom
9 The subject of Henri Deplis’s tattoo implies a
parallel to his
(1) social ignorance (3) sense of humility
(2) economic worth (4) loss of control ]]
##June 2018##

{{
When my mother found out that the large mirror in the living room was inhabited,
we all gradually went from disbelief to astonishment, and from this to a state of
contemplation, ending up by accepting it as an everyday thing.
The fact that the old, spotted mirror reflected the dear departed in the family was not
enough to upset our life style. Following the old saying of “let the house burn as long as
no one sees the smoke,” we kept the secret to ourselves since, after all, it was nobody else’s
business.
At any rate, some time went by before each one of us would feel absolutely comfortable
about sitting down in our favorite chair and learning that, in the mirror, that same chair was
occupied by somebody else. For example, it could be Aurelia, my grandmother’s sister
(1939), and even if cousin Natalie would be on my side of the room, across from her would
be the almost forgotten Uncle Nicholas (1927). As could have been expected, our departed
reflected in the mirror presented the image of a family gathering almost identical to our
own, since nothing, absolutely nothing in the living-room—the furniture and its
arrangement, the light, etc.—was changed in the mirror. The only difference was that on
the other side it was them instead of us.
I don’t know about the others, but I sometimes felt that, more than a vision in the
mirror, I was watching an old worn-out movie, already clouded. The deceaseds’ efforts to
copy our gestures were slower, restrained, as if the mirror were not truly showing a direct
image but the reflection of some other reflection.
From the very beginning I knew that everything would get more complicated as soon
as my cousin Clara got back from vacation. Because of her boldness and determination,
Clara had long given me the impression that she had blundered into our family by mistake.
This suspicion had been somewhat bolstered by her being one of the first women dentists
in the country. However, the idea that she might have been with us by mistake went away
as soon as my cousin hung up her diploma and started to embroider sheets beside my
grandmother, aunts and other cousins, waiting for a suitor who actually did show up but was
found lacking in one respect or another—nobody ever really found out why.
Once she graduated, Clara became the family oracle, even though she never practiced her
profession. She would prescribe painkillers and was the arbiter of fashion; she would choose
the theater shows and rule on whether the punch had the right amount of liquor at each social
gathering. In view of all this, it was fitting that she take one month off every year to go to the
beach. …
Naturally, the idea of moving the mirror to the dining-room was hers. And so was its
sequel: to bring the mirror near the big table, so we could all sit together for meals.
In spite of my mother’s fears that the mirror people would run away or get annoyed
because of the fuss, everything went fine. I must admit it was comforting to sit every day
at the table and see so many familiar faces, although some of those from the other side were
distant relatives, and others, due to their lengthy—although unintentional—absence, were 
almost strangers. There were about twenty of us sitting at the table every day, and even if
their gestures and movements seemed more remote than ours and their meals a little
washed-out, we generally gave the impression of being a large family that got along well. …
For a while we ate all together, without further incidents or problems. We mustn’t
forget Clara, however, whom we had allowed to sit at the frontier between the two tables,
the equator separating what was from what was not. Although we paid no attention to
the situation, we should have. Compounding our regrettable oversight was the fact that
lethargic Eulalia sat across from her so that one night, with the same cordiality with which
she had addressed Gus [a family member], Clara asked Eulalia to pass the salad. Eulalia
affected the haughty disdain of offended royalty as she passed the spectral salad bowl,
filled with dull lettuce and grayish semi-transparent tomatoes which Clara gobbled up,
smiling mischievously at the novelty of it all. She watched us with the same defiance in
her eyes that she had on the day she enrolled in a man’s subject. There was no time to act.
We just watched her grow pale, then her smile faded away until finally Clara collapsed
against the mirror.
Once the funeral business was over and we sat back down at the table again, we saw that
Clara had taken a place on the other side. She was between cousin Baltazar (1940) and a
great-uncle whom we simply called “Ito.”
This faux pas dampened our conviviality somewhat. In a way, we felt betrayed; we felt
that they had grievously abused our hospitality. However, we ended up divided over the
question of who was really whose guest. It was also plain that our carelessness and Clara’s
irrepressible inquisitiveness had contributed to the mishap. In fact, a short time later we
realized that there wasn’t a great deal of difference between what Clara did before and
what she was doing now, and so we decided to overlook the incident and get on with things.
Nevertheless, each day we became less and less sure about which side was life and which
its reflection, and as one bad step leads to another, I ended up taking Clara’s empty place.
I am now much closer to them. I can almost hear the distant rustle of the folding and
unfolding of napkins, the slight clinking of glasses and cutlery, the movement of chairs.
The fact is that I can’t tell if these sounds come from them or from us. I’m obviously not
worried about clearing that up. What really troubles me, though, is that Clara doesn’t seem
to behave properly, with either the solemnity or with the opacity owed to her new position;
I don’t know how to put it. Even worse, the problem is that I—more than anybody else in
the family—may become the target of Clara’s machinations, since we were always joined
by a very special affection, perhaps because we were the same age and had shared the same
children’s games and the first anxieties of adolescence…
As it happens, she is doing her best to get my attention, and ever since last Monday she
has been waiting for me to slip up so she can pass me a pineapple this big, admittedly a little
bleached-out, but just right for making juice and also a bit sour, just as she knows I like it. }}
&&—María Elena Llano
excerpted and adapted from “In the Family”
Short Stories by Latin American Women: The Magic and the Real, 1990
translated by Beatriz Teleki
Arte Público Press &&
[[1 Lines 1 through 7 introduce the family’s
(1) tendency to gossip
(2) experience with loss
(3) process of adaptation
(4) attempt to socialize
2 The description in lines 8 through 16 reinforces the
(1) isolation of the deceased relatives
(2) strangeness of the family’s situation
(3) fearfulness of the insecure relatives
(4) tension of the family’s interaction
3 The statement, “The only difference was that on
the other side it was them instead of us” (lines 15
and 16) emphasizes a central idea of the
(1) rivalry among different generations
(2) continuity between life and death
(3) conflict between tradition and change
(4) respect among distant relatives
4 The use of the word “However” (line 25) signals
a change in
(1) the narrator’s perception of Clara’s place in
the family
(2) Clara’s understanding of the narrator’s 

submission to the family

(3) the narrator’s resentment of Clara’s 

profession

(4) Clara’s rejection of the family’s eccentricities
5 Clara’s title of “family oracle” (line 29) is most
likely a result of her
(1) assertive personality
(2) disciplined character
(3) warm demeanor
(4) generous spirit
6 Lines 36 through 40 suggest that the mirror
people are
(1) an inconvenience to the living family
(2) curious about the living family
(3) welcomed by the living family
(4) disturbed by the living family
7 The phrases “regrettable oversight” (line 46) and
“funeral business” (line 55) imply that the narrator’s
reaction to her cousin’s death can best be
described as
(1) indifferent
(2) irritated
(3) impulsive
(4) irrational
8 Lines 75 through 77 suggest that the narrator
(1) loses her identity
(2) dislikes intrusions
(3) distrusts her cousin
(4) resents routines
9 Which detail best reveals Clara’s character?
(1) “been with us by mistake” (line 25)
(2) “waiting for a suitor” (line 27)
(3) “gobbled up, smiling mischievously” 

(lines 50 and 51)

(4) “collapsed against the mirror” (lines 53
and 54)
10 Which quotation best reflects a central idea in the
text?
(1) “the idea of moving the mirror to the diningroom was hers” (line 34)
(2) “There were about twenty of us sitting at
the table every day” (line 40)
(3) “We just watched her grow pale, then her
smile faded away” (line 53)
(4) “we became less and less sure about which
side was life and which its reflection”
(lines 64 and 65) ]]
##August 2018##

{{I had a farm in Africa, at the foot of the Ngong Hills. The Equator runs across these
highlands, a hundred miles to the North, and the farm lay at an altitude of over six thousand
feet. In the day-time you felt that you had got high up, near to the sun, but the early
mornings and evenings were limpid and restful, and the nights were cold. …
We grew coffee on my farm. The land was in itself a little too high for coffee, and it was
hard work to keep it going; we were never rich on the farm. But a coffee-plantation is a
thing that gets hold of you and does not let you go, and there is always something to do on
it: you are generally just a little behind with your work. …
Coffee-growing is a long job. It does not all come out as you imagine, when, yourself
young and hopeful, in the streaming rain, you carry the boxes of your shining young coffee-
plants from the nurseries, and, with the whole number of farm-hands in the field, watch the
plants set in the regular rows of holes in the wet ground where they are to grow, and
then have them thickly shaded against the sun, with branches broken from the bush,
since obscurity is the privilege of young things. It is four or five years till the trees come into
bearing, and in the meantime you will get drought on the land, or diseases, and the bold
native weeds will grow up thick in the fields,—the black-jack, which has long scabrous
seed-vessels that hang on to your clothes and stockings. Some of the trees have been badly
planted with their tap-roots bent; they will die just as they begin to flower. You plant a little
over six hundred trees to the acre, and I had six hundred acres of land with coffee; my oxen
dragged the cultivators up and down the fields, between the rows of trees, many thousand
miles, patiently, awaiting coming bounties.
There are times of great beauty on a coffee-farm. When the plantation flowered in
the beginning of the rains, it was a radiant sight, like a cloud of chalk, in the mist and
the drizzling rain, over six hundred acres of land. The coffee-blossom has a delicate slightly
bitter scent, like the black-thorn blossom. When the field reddened with the ripe berries,
all the women and the children, whom they call the Totos, were called out to pick the coffee
off the trees, together with the men; then the waggons and carts brought it down to the
factory near the river. Our machinery was never quite what it should have been, but we had
planned and built the factory ourselves and thought highly of it. Once the whole factory
burned down and had to be built up again. The big coffee-dryer turned and turned,
rumbling the coffee in its iron belly with a sound like pebbles that are washed about on the
sea-shore. Sometimes the coffee would be dry, and ready to take out of the dryer, in the
middle of the night. That was a picturesque moment, with many hurricane lamps in the
huge dark room of the factory, that was hung everywhere with cobwebs and coffee-husks,
and with eager glowing dark faces, in the light of the lamps, round the dryer; the factory,
you felt, hung in the great African night like a bright jewel in an Ethiope’s ear. Later on the
coffee was hulled, graded, and sorted by hand, and packed in sacks sewn up with a saddler’s
needle. …
My farm was a little too high up for growing coffee. It happened in the cold months that
we would get frost on the lower land and in the morning the shoots of the coffee-trees, and
the young coffee-berries on them, would be all brown and withered. The wind blew in from
the plains, and even in good years we never got the same yield of coffee to the acre as the
people in the lower districts of Thika and Kiambu, on four thousand feet. 
We were short of rain, as well, in the Ngong country, and three times we had a year of
real drought, which brought us very low down. In a year in which we had fifty inches of rain,
we picked eighty tons of coffee, and in a year of fifty-five inches, nearly ninety tons;
but there were two bad years in which we had only twenty-five and twenty inches of rain, and
picked only sixteen and fifteen tons of coffee, and those years were disastrous to the
farm.
50 At the same time coffee-prices fell: where we had got a hundred pounds a ton we now
got sixty or seventy. Times grew hard on the farm. We could not pay our debts, and we had
no money for the running of the plantation. My people at home, who had shares in the farm,
wrote out to me and told me that I would have to sell. …
Our real trouble was that we were short of capital, for it had all been spent in the old
days before I took over the running of the farm. We could not carry through any radical
improvements, but had to live from hand to mouth,—and this, in the last years, became our
normal mode of living on the farm. …
When I had no more money, and could not make things pay, I had to sell the farm.
A big Company in Nairobi bought it. They thought that the place was too high up for coffee,
and they were not going in for farming. But they meant to take up all the coffee-trees, to
divide up the land and lay out roads, and in time, when Nairobi should be growing out to
the West, they meant to sell the land for building-plots. That was towards the end of the
year.
Even as it was then, I do not think that I should have found it in me to give up the farm
if it had not been for one thing. The coffee-crop that was still unripe upon the trees
belonged to the old owners of the farm, or to the Bank which was holding a first mortgage
in it. This coffee would not be picked, handled in the factory and sent off, till May or later.
For such a period I was to remain on the farm, in charge of it, and things were to go on,
unaltered to the view. And during this time, I thought, something would happen to change
it all back, since the world, after all, was not a regular or calculable place. … }}
&&—Karen Blixen
excerpted from Out of Africa, 1948
Putnam &&
[[15 The second paragraph introduces a central idea of
(1) security in the farm’s abundance
(2) perseverance in spite of obstacles
(3) trust in the crop’s profitability
(4) success in spite of inexperience
16 The language in lines 9 through 14 suggests that
new coffee plants require
(1) isolation
(2) fertilization
(3) irrigation
(4) protection
17 The words “black-jack” (line 16) and “tap-roots”
(line 18) provide evidence of the
(1) narrator’s knowledge
(2) workers’ responsibility
(3) farm’s prosperity
(4) trees’ hardiness
18 The imagery in lines 22 through 25 highlights the
farm’s
(1) diversity
(2) routine	
(3) appeal
(4) history
19 The figurative language in lines 30 through 32
reinforces the
(1) power of the ocean
(2) rattle of the machine
(3) heat of the dryer
(4) noise of the night
20 The purpose of lines 39 through 43 is to explain the
(1) impact of the farm’s elevation
(2) benefits of the farm’s size
(3) fragility of the immature berries
(4) success of the annual harvests 
21 The details in lines 44 through 49 demonstrate
that the
(1) growing conditions are beneficial
(2) natural events are unpredictable
(3) excessive rain lowers coffee prices
(4) careful records improve crop yields
22 The phrase “hand to mouth” (line 56) most likely
means
(1) using unusual resources
(2) enjoying occasional luxuries
(3) covering basic necessities
(4) ignoring financial problems
23 The statement in lines 69 and 70 reflects the
narrator’s
(1) sympathy
(2) indifference
(3) ignorance
(4) optimism
24 Which statement best represents a central idea of
the text?
(1) “Our machinery was never quite what it
should have been, but we had planned and
built the factory ourselves” (lines 28 and 29)
(2) “That was a picturesque moment, with many
hurricane lamps in the huge dark room of
the factory” (lines 33 and 34)
(3) “But they meant to take up all the coffeetrees, to divide up the land and lay out
roads” (lines 60 and 61)
(4) “Even as it was then, I do not think that I
should have found it in me to give up the
farm” (line 64) ]]
##August 2018##

{{…It was so cold that his first breath turned to iron in his throat, the hairs in his nostrils
webbed into instant ice, his eyes stung and watered. In the faint starlight and the bluish
luminescence of the snow everything beyond a few yards away swam deceptive and without
depth, glimmering with things half seen or imagined. Beside the dead car he stood with his
head bent, listening, and there was not a sound. Everything on the planet might have died
in the cold. …
But here he stood in light overcoat and thin leather gloves, without overshoes, and his
car all but blocked the road, and the door could not be locked, and there was not a
possibility that he could carry the heavy cases with him to the next farm or village. He
switched on the headlights again and studied the roadside they revealed, and saw a rail
fence, with cedars and spruces behind it. When more complex gadgets and more complex
cures failed, there was always the lucifer match.
Ten minutes later he was sitting with the auto robe over his head and shoulders and his
back against the plowed snowbank, digging the half melted snow from inside his shoes and
gloating over the growing light and warmth of the fire. He had a supply of fence rails good
for an hour. In that time, someone would come along and he could get a push or a tow. In
this country, in winter, no one ever passed up a stranded motorist. …
Abruptly he did not want to wait in that lonely snow-banked ditch any longer. The
sample cases could look after themselves, any motorist who passed could take his own
chances. He would walk ahead to the nearest help, and if he found himself getting too cold
on the way, he could always build another fire. The thought of action cheered him; he
admitted to himself that he was all but terrified at the silence and the iron cold. …
Turning with the road, he passed through the stretch of woods and came into the open
to see the moon-white, shadow-black buildings of a farm, and the weak bloom of light in a
window. …
“Hello?” he said, and knocked again. “Anybody home?” No sound answered him. He
saw the moon glint on the great icicles along the eaves. His numb hand ached with the pain
of knocking; he pounded with the soft edge of his fist.
Answer finally came, not from the door before which he stood, but from the barn, down
at the end of a staggered string of attached sheds. A door creaked open against a snowbank
and a figure with a lantern appeared, stood for a moment, and came running. The traveler
wondered at the way it came, lurching and stumbling in the uneven snow, until it arrived at
the porch and he saw that it was a boy of eleven or twelve. The boy set his lantern on the
porch; between the upturned collar of his mackinaw and the down-pulled stocking cap his
face was a pinched whiteness, his eyes enormous. He stared at the traveler until the traveler
became aware of the blanket he still held over head and shoulders, and began to laugh. 
“My car stopped on me, a mile or so up the road,” he said. “I was just hunting a
telephone or some place where I could get help.”
The boy swallowed, wiped the back of his mitt across his nose. “Grandpa’s sick!” he
blurted, and opened the door. …
“He must’ve had a shock,” the boy said. “I came in from chores and he was on the floor.”
He stared at the mummy under the quilt, and he swallowed. …
“Why didn’t you go for help?”
The boy looked down, ashamed. “It’s near two miles. I was afraid he’d.…”
“But you left him. You were out in the barn.”
“I was hitching up to go,” the boy said. “I’d made up my mind.”
The traveler backed away from the stove, his face smarting with the heat, his fingers
and feet beginning to ache. He looked at the old man and knew that here, as at the car, he
was helpless. The boy’s thin anxious face told him how thoroughly his own emergency had
been swallowed up in this other one. He had been altered from a man in need of help to
one who must give it. Salesman of wonder cures, he must now produce something to calm
this over-worried boy, restore a dying man. Rebelliously, victimized by circumstances, he
said, “Where were you going for help?”
“The Hill place. They’ve got a phone.”
“How far are they from a town?”
“About five miles.”
“Doctor there?”
“Yes.”
“If I took your horse and—what is it, sleigh?—could someone at the Hills’ bring them
back, do you think?”
“Cutter. One of the Hill boys could, I should say.”
“Or would you rather go, while I look after your Grandpa?”
“He don’t know you,” the boy said directly. “If he should wake up he might … wonder
… it might.…”
The traveler grudgingly gave up the prospect of staying in the warm kitchen while the
boy did the work. And he granted that it was extraordinarily sensitive of the boy to know
how it might disturb a man to wake from sickness in his own house and stare into the face
of an utter stranger. “Yes,” he said. “Well, I could call the doctor from the Hills’. Two miles,
did you say?” …
He climbed into the cutter and pulled over his lap the balding buffalo robe he found
there; the scallop of its felt edges was like a key that fitted a door. The horses breathed jets
of steam in the moonlight, restlessly moving, jingling their harness bells, as the moment
lengthened itself. The traveler saw how the boy, now that his anxiety was somewhat quieted,
now that he had been able to unload part of his burden, watched him with a thousand
questions in his face, and he remembered how he himself, thirty years ago, had searched
the faces of passing strangers for something he could not name, how he had listened to their
steps and seen their shadows lengthen ahead of them down roads that led to unimaginable
places, and how he had ached with the desire to know them, who they were. But none of
them had looked back at him as he tried now to look at this boy. … 
For half a breath he was utterly bewitched, frozen at the heart of some icy dream.
Abruptly he slapped the reins across the backs of the horses; the cutter jerked and then slid
smoothly out toward the road. The traveler looked back once, to fix forever the picture of
himself standing silently watching himself go. As he slid into the road the horses broke into
a trot. The icy flow of air locked his throat and made him let go the reins with one hand to
pull the hairy, wool-smelling edge of the blanket all but shut across his face.
Along a road he had never driven he went swiftly toward an unknown farm and an
unknown town, to distribute according to some wise law part of the burden of the boy’s
emergency and his own; but he bore in his mind, bright as moonlight over snow, a vivid
wonder, almost an awe. For from that most chronic and incurable of ills, identity, he had
looked outward and for one unmistakable instant recognized himself. }}
&&—Wallace Stegner
excerpted from “The Traveler”
Harper’s Magazine, February 1951&&
[[
1 The figurative language in lines 1 and 2 creates a
sense of
(1) discomfort (3) curiosity
(2) fearfulness (4) tranquility
2 The details in lines 7 through 12 demonstrate
that the traveler
(1) has confidence in his ability to survive
(2) is comfortable with his current situation
(3) has faith in modern technology
(4) is calmed by the beautiful landscape
3 It can be inferred from lines 18 through 22 that
the traveler
(1) has resolved to move in spite of his fears
(2) is sure that someone will come to his rescue
(3) is concerned that someone will steal his car
(4) has decided to stay to protect his samples
4 In the context of the text as a whole, the “weak
bloom of light” (line 24) most likely suggests the
(1) probability of danger
(2) possibility of assistance
(3) chance of companionship
(4) likelihood of adventure
5 Lines 47 through 53 reveal the
(1) traveler’s acceptance of the change in the
situation
(2) boy’s misunderstanding of his grandfather’s
illness
(3) traveler’s resentment about delaying his
appointments
(4) boy’s confidence in the doctor’s expertise
6 The traveler’s decision in lines 65 and 66 is
prompted by his
(1) reluctance to bond with the boy
(2) sympathy for the boy’s dilemma
(3) ignorance of the grandfather’s crisis
(4) desire to solve his own problems
7 Lines 73 through 79 convey a central idea that
the traveler
(1) acknowledges his anger and frustration with
the circumstances
(2) regrets his decision to leave the boy alone
with the grandfather
(3) recognizes his connection and importance to
the boy
(4) questions his choice to seek assistance from
strangers 
8 The language used to describe motion in lines 80
through 82 creates a sense of
(1) satisfaction (3) confusion
(2) failure (4) resolve
9 The final paragraph contributes to a central idea
by suggesting that the traveler
(1) realizes he must forget the past to move
forward
(2) regrets the way he treated strangers in the
past
(3) discovers he can help himself by assisting a
stranger
(4) accepts that he must struggle for success 
]]
##January 2019##
{{
…Nowhere is light pollution more apparent, almost achingly so, than in satellite images
of the Earth from space. The continental United States seems to split in half: the eastern
side is brighter than the west, except for the klieg lights of Las Vegas. Highways innervate
America, connecting luminous dots of small towns and big cities. Across the Atlantic,
Europe shimmers. Moscow is a radiant nine-pointed star. The Nile Delta glows like a
dandelion sprouting from mostly indigo Africa. Farther east, Hong Kong and Shanghai are
ablaze, and the demilitarised zone separates dark North Korea from South Korea more
cleanly than if the peninsula had been cleft in two. Developed society, it’s clear, is where the
light is.
Human-controlled light has pierced the night for thousands of years, long before
[Thomas] Edison. Campfires warmed our ancestors’ feet and cooked their meals; the
Harvard anthropologist Richard Wrangham argues in his book Catching Fire (2009) that
gathering around a flame to eat and to commune with others is, in fact, what made us
human. Not just fellowship but safety has long been the primary rationale for pushing back
the night. ‘Evil spirits love not the smell of lamps,’ as Plato put it. Comforting, lambent
lamplight led us safely home by tattling on the people and potholes and animals that would
otherwise do us harm. By the early 17th century, residents of cities such as Paris and London
were admonished to keep lights burning in the windows of all houses that faced the streets,
as the historian A. Roger Ekirch notes in his book At Day’s Close: Night in Times Past
(2005). Taxpayers funded oil lamps and candlelit lanterns for the avenues, while only
genteel households could afford fine beeswax or spermaceti candles; most people relied on
tallow, made from animal fat. …
And even so — what price safety! A young but rapidly growing field of research suggests
that night-time light itself is far more dangerous than the dark. In a 2012 report, an
American Medical Association committee called electric lighting a ‘man-made self-
experiment’ creating potentially harmful health effects. Humans, and everything else that
lives on this planet with us, evolved during billions of years along a reliable cycle of day and
night, with clear boundaries between them. Staunching the flood of artificial light can help
restore this divide. Our well-being, and that of our fellow creatures, might depend on us
doing so — or at the very least trying. The loss of night-time darkness neglects our shared
past, but it might very well cut short our futures too. …
A growing body of evidence shows that light pollution exacerbates, and might directly
cause, cancer, obesity, and depression, the troublesome triumvirate of industrialised
society. One of the first people to notice this correlation, at least as it applies to cancer, is
Richard Stevens, a professor at the University of Connecticut, respected cancer
epidemiologist, and mild insomniac. In the early 1980s, Stevens and other researchers
were beginning to realise there was little or no connection between diet and rising rates of 
breast cancer, contrary to what had been suspected. As Stevens puts it, it was like a light
bulb going on when he realised that, in fact, a light bulb going on might be a culprit. …
‘Rather than falling, night, to the watchful eye, rises,’ writes Ekirch in At Day’s Close.
Shadows creep up lows and valleys first, then consume hillsides and houses and the tallest
buildings. Muted greys and deeper blues chase off the sun until finally the sky leaks no
colour. When we sleep according to a solar cycle, melatonin production follows this
pattern, rising with the night. But artificial light tamps it down. This is frustratingly
apparent for a special class of humans who experience sunsets every 90 minutes: astronauts.
One of the most frequent complaints of orbital crew members is insomnia; they pop
sleeping pills on a regular basis, and still get only about six hours of shuteye, though they’re
allotted eight. Steven W. Lockley, a Harvard neuroscientist, recommends altering the light
to improve matters. In 2012, he advised NASA [National Aeronautics and Space
Administration] engineers to change the light bulbs on the International Space Station to a
type of LED that can display blue-shifted light during the ‘day’, when the crew is working,
and red-shifted light when they need to rest. Why the difference? That crucial ganglion,
the circadian photoreceptor, is particularly sensitive to light toward the bluish end of the
red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet visible-light spectrum. …
Insomnia is hardly the worst side effect of light pollution. Shift workers, who rise with
the night and work awash in blue light, experience not only disrupted circadian rhythms and
sleep deprivation, but an increased risk of breast and prostate cancer. These cancers, which
require hormones to grow, are suppressed in the presence of melatonin, Stevens has shown.
In 2010, Stevens published a review of breast cancer sensitivity in 164 countries, and found
a 30 to 50 per cent increased risk of cancer in nations with the worst light pollution, but no
increased prevalence of non-hormonally dependent cancers in the same populations.
‘Our use of electric light in the modern world is disrupting our circadian sleep and our
biology. There is no question about that. Does that have physiological consequences? There
is more and more evidence that it does,’ Stevens told me. ‘The epidemiological studies are
the crudest, but the most important.’ …
When we, in the industrialised world, do manage to turn off the lights, there are
measurable, beneficial effects on our circadian rhythms. In a widely reported paper last
summer, Kenneth Wright at the University of Colorado at Boulder took eight students
camping in the Rocky Mountains for two weeks. They weren’t allowed to use any artificial
light after the sun went down — only the sanguine10 glow of campfire. After a week,
melatonin started to rise at sunset, peak in the middle of the night, and taper just at sunrise,
which Wright called a ‘remarkable’ result. ‘Internal biological time under natural light-dark
conditions tightly synchronises to environmental time, and in this regard, humans are
comparable to other animals,’ he wrote. …
For those of us addicted to our glowing phones and tablets, an app called F.lux can help.
It ‘warms’ your device’s display screen so that it shifts red in the evening, more closely
matching incandescent bulbs and the hue of the setting sun. Just a brief glimpse at your
mobile phone at bedtime is enough to expose your retinas to artificial light, so fighting such 
a comprehensive intrusion might be an exercise in futility. But even if we can’t completely
quench our thirst for light, we can all make one small gesture, which could prompt us to
unplug a little more. … }}
&&—Rebecca Boyle
excerpted and adapted from “The End of Night”
https://aeon.co, April 1, 2014 &&
[[15 The first paragraph introduces a central idea of
the passage by demonstrating the
(1) geographic location of specific countries
(2) most densely populated areas in the world
(3) extensive impact of modern technology on
the world
(4) consequences of political differences
between various nations
16 The figurative language in lines 15 through 17
describes the
(1) peace of darkness (3) security of light
(2) beauty of light (4) value of darkness
17 The phrase, “And even so — what price safety!”
in line 23, is used to
(1) offer an example
(2) disprove an expert
(3) create a transition
(4) discredit a method
18 Lines 30 and 31 convey a sense of
(1) caution (3) indifference
(2) despair (4) guilt
19 A central idea reinforced in lines 32 through 39 is
that artificial lighting is a source of
(1) vitamin deficiency (3) unclean air
(2) human disease (4) dangerous bacteria
20 The word “tamps,” as used in line 44, most nearly
means
(1) bends (3) removes
(2) reduces (4) hardens
21 The details in lines 46 through 52 show the
(1) advantages of dim lighting within spacecrafts
(2) benefits of activity in promoting sleep
(3) importance of medication for ensuring sleep
(4) effects of different lighting on astronauts
22 In lines 66 through 74, Kenneth Wright’s
camping trip helped prove that human “biological
time”
(1) operates independently from outside stimuli
(2) reacts to changes in elevation
(3) responds to feelings of stress
(4) aligns itself with natural cycles
23 The purpose of the final sentence (lines 79
through 81) is to
(1) challenge an argument
(2) settle a debate
(3) suggest a solution
(4) contradict an assumption
24 Which statement best reflects a central idea in
the text?
(1) “Human-controlled light has pierced the
night for thousands of years, long before
[Thomas] Edison.” (lines 10 and 11)
(2) “Not just fellowship but safety has long been
the primary rationale for pushing back the
night.” (lines 14 and 15)
(3) “A young but rapidly growing field of
research suggests that night-time light itself
is far more dangerous than the dark.” (lines 23 and 24)
(4) “Shadows creep up lows and valleys first,
then consume hillsides and houses and the
tallest buildings.” (lines 41 and 42) ]]
##January 2019##

{{When Marvin was ten years old, his father took him through the long, echoing corridors
that led up through Administration and Power, until at last they came to the uppermost
levels of all and were among the swiftly growing vegetation of the Farmlands. Marvin liked
it here: it was fun watching the great, slender plants creeping with almost visible eagerness
towards the sunlight as it filtered down through the plastic domes to meet them. The smell
of life was everywhere, awakening inexpressible longings in his heart: no longer was he
breathing the dry, cool air of the residential levels, purged of all smells but the faint tang of
ozone. He wished he could stay here for a little while, but Father would not let him. They
went onwards until they had reached the entrance to the Observatory, which he had never
visited: but they did not stop, and Marvin knew with a sense of rising excitement that there
could be only one goal left. For the first time in his life, he was going Outside.
There were a dozen of the surface vehicles, with their wide balloon tyres [tires] and
pressurized cabins, in the great servicing chamber. His father must have been expected, for
they were led at once to the little scout car waiting by the huge circular door of the airlock.
Tense with expectancy, Marvin settled himself down in the cramped cabin while his father
started the motor and checked the controls. The inner door of the lock slid open and then
closed behind them: he heard the roar of the great air-pumps fade slowly away as the
pressure dropped to zero. Then the ‘Vacuum’ sign flashed on, the outer door parted, and
before Marvin lay the land which he had never yet entered.
He had seen it in photographs, of course: he had watched it imaged on television
screens a hundred times. But now it was lying all around him, burning beneath the fierce
sun that crawled so slowly across the jet-black sky. He stared into the west, away from the
blinding splendour of the sun — and there were the stars, as he had been told but had never
quite believed. He gazed at them for a long time, marvelling that anything could be so bright
and yet so tiny. They were intense unscintillating points, and suddenly he remembered a
rhyme he had once read in one of his father’s books:
Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
How I wonder what you are.
Well, he knew what the stars were. Whoever asked that question must have been very
stupid. And what did they mean by ‘twinkle’? You could see at a glance that all the stars
shone with the same steady, unwavering light. He abandoned the puzzle and turned his
attention to the landscape around him.
They were racing across a level plain at almost a hundred miles an hour, the great
balloon tyres sending up little spurts of dust behind them. There was no sign of the Colony:
in the few minutes while he had been gazing at the stars, its domes and radio towers had
fallen below the horizon. Yet there were other indications of man’s presence, for about a
mile ahead Marvin could see the curiously shaped structures clustering round the head of 
a mine. Now and then a puff of vapour would emerge from a squat smoke-stack and would
instantly disperse.
They were past the mine in a moment: Father was driving with a reckless and
exhilarating skill as if — it was a strange thought to come into a child’s mind — he was
trying to escape from something. In a few minutes they had reached the edge of the plateau
on which the Colony had been built. The ground fell sharply away beneath them in a
dizzying slope whose lower stretches were lost in shadow. Ahead, as far as the eye could
reach, was a jumbled wasteland of craters, mountain ranges, and ravines. The crests of the
mountains, catching the low sun, burned like islands of fire in a sea of darkness: and above
them the stars still shone as steadfastly as ever. …
And now on the right was a wrinkled, dusty plain, and on the left, its ramparts and
terraces rising mile after mile into the sky, was a wall of mountains that marched into the
distance until its peaks sank from sight below the rim of the world. There was no sign that
men had ever explored this land, but once they passed the skeleton of a crashed rocket, and
beside it a stone cairn surmounted by a metal cross. …
The sun was now low behind the hills on the right: the valley before them should be in
total darkness. Yet it was awash with a cold white radiance that came spilling over the crags
beneath which they were driving. Then, suddenly, they were out in the open plain, and the
source of the light lay before them in all its glory.
It was very quiet in the little cabin now that the motors had stopped. The only sound
was the faint whisper of the oxygen feed and an occasional metallic crepitation as the outer
walls of the vehicle radiated away their heat. For no warmth at all came from the great silver
crescent that floated low above the far horizon and flooded all this land with pearly light. It
was so brilliant that minutes passed before Marvin could accept its challenge and look
steadfastly into its glare, but at last he could discern the outlines of continents, the hazy
border of the atmosphere, and the white islands of cloud. And even at this distance, he
could see the glitter of sunlight on the polar ice.
It was beautiful, and it called to his heart across the abyss of space. There in that shining
crescent were all the wonders that he had never known — the hues of sunset skies, the
moaning of the sea on pebbled shores, the patter of falling rain, the unhurried benison of
snow. These and a thousand others should have been his rightful heritage, but he knew
them only from the books and ancient records, and the thought filled him with the anguish
of exile.
Why could they not return? It seemed so peaceful beneath those lines of marching
cloud. Then Marvin, his eyes no longer blinded by the glare, saw that the portion of the disk
that should have been in darkness was gleaming faintly with an evil phosphorescence: and
he remembered. He was looking upon the funeral pyre of a world — upon the radioactive
aftermath of Armageddon. Across a quarter of a million miles of space, the glow of dying
atoms was still visible, a perennial reminder of the ruined past. It would be centuries yet
before that deadly glow died from the rocks and life could return again to fill that silent,
empty world. … 
So, at last, Marvin understood the purpose of this pilgrimage. He [his father] would
never walk beside the rivers of that lost and legendary world, or listen to the thunder raging
above its softly rounded hills. Yet one day — how far ahead? — his children’s children
would return to claim their heritage. The winds and the rains would scour the poisons from
the burning lands and carry them to the sea, and in the depths of the sea they would waste
their venom until they could harm no living things. Then the great ships that were still
waiting here on the silent, dusty plains could lift once more into space, along the road that
led to home. … }}
&&—Arthur C. Clarke
excerpted and adapted from “If I Forget Thee, Oh Earth…”
Expedition to Earth, 1999
Orbit
&&
[[
1 The images in the first paragraph serve to
(1) create a sense of solitude
(2) illustrate the randomness of nature
(3) create a feeling of anticipation
(4) illustrate the importance of family
2 Lines 12 through 19 establish
(1) Marvin’s misgivings about going Outside
(2) the inhospitable conditions of Outside
(3) Father’s fears about traveling Outside
(4) the unpleasant sensations of Outside
3 The statement “it was a strange thought to come
into a child’s mind” (line 41) signals
(1) a change in Marvin’s understanding
(2) Marvin’s growing embrace of the unknown
(3) Marvin’s objection to his father’s behavior
(4) a chance for Marvin’s rescue
4 The phrase “jumbled wasteland of craters,
mountain ranges, and ravines” (line 45) reveals the
(1) futility of the Colony
(2) desolation of the Outside
(3) uncertainty of Marvin’s future
(4) loneliness of Marvin’s past
5 The “glare” described in lines 62 and 72
represents Marvin’s
(1) romantic vision of the Earth
(2) obsession with the Earth’s past
(3) vague memory of the Earth
(4) faith in the Earth’s restoration
6 Lines 68 through 70 emphasize Marvin’s
(1) sense of deprivation
(2) appreciation of his situation
(3) fear of destruction
(4) recollection of his childhood
7 The details in lines 72 through 75 confirm the
Earth has been damaged by
(1) climate change
(2) cosmic instability
(3) human actions
(4) natural occurences
8 The images in lines 82 through 84 convey
feelings of
(1) fear and disappointment
(2) cleansing and renewal
(3) preservation and protection
(4) confusion and impatience 
9 Which lines best capture Marvin’s understanding of his father’s perspective?
(1) “Tense with expectancy, Marvin settled himself down in the cramped cabin while his father started the
motor and checked the controls” (lines 15 and 16)
(2) “They were intense unscintillating points, and suddenly he remembered a rhyme he had once read in
one of his father’s books” (lines 25 and 26)
(3) “In a few minutes they had reached the edge of the plateau on which the Colony had been built”
(lines 42 and 43)
(4) “He [his father] would never walk beside the rivers of that lost and legendary world, or listen to the
thunder raging above its softly rounded hills” (lines 79 through 81)
]]
##June 2019##

{{Is text-messaging driving us apart? These days, we talk to each other a lot with our
thumbs—mashing out over six billion text messages a day in the United States, and likely a
few billion more on services like WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger.
But some worry that so much messaging leads, paradoxically, to less communication.
When Sherry Turkle, the MIT clinical psychologist and author, interviewed college
students, they said texting was causing friction in their face-to-face interactions. While
hanging out with friends they’d be texting surreptitiously at the same time, pretending to
maintain eye contact but mentally somewhere else. The new form of communication was
fun, sure, but it was colliding with—and eroding—the old one.
“Our texts are fine,” as one student said. “It’s what texting does to our conversations
when we are together that’s the problem.” …
New technologies often unsettle the way we relate to one another, of course. But social
ruptures caused by texting have a strong echo in the arguments we had a hundred years ago.
That’s when a newfangled appliance gave us a strange new way to contact one another en
masse: the telephone. …
At first, the telephone was marketed mainly as a tool for business. Physicians and
drugstores bought them to process orders, and business owners installed them at home so
they could be quickly reached. The phone, proclaimed early ad copy, gave business leaders
an ESP-like “sixth sense” of their far-flung operations. …
Nonetheless, the telephone quickly gave birth to curious new forms of socializing.
Callers arranged regular weekly “visiting” calls, dialing remote family to catch up on news.
“Distance rolls away and for a few minutes every Thursday night the familiar voices tell the
little family gossip that both are so eager to hear,” a Bell ad cooed in 1921.
Phone companies even boasted that the phone was an improvement over that stodgy,
low-fi communication, the letter. “Correspondence will help for a time, but friendships do
not flourish for long on letters alone,” a 1931 Bell sales manual noted. “When you can’t visit
in person, telephone periodically. Telephone calls will keep up the whole intimacy
remarkably well.”
Soon, though, social critics began to wonder: Was all this phone chatter good for us?
Was it somehow a lesser form of communication than what had come before? “Does the
telephone make men more active or more lazy?” wondered the Knights of Columbus in a
1926 meeting. “Does the telephone break up home life and the old practice of visiting
friends?”
Others worried that the inverse would occur—that it would be so easy to talk that we’d
never leave each other alone. “Thanks to the telephone, motor-car and such-like inventions,
our neighbors have it in their power to turn our leisure into a series of interruptions,”
complained an American professor in 1929. And surely it couldn’t be healthy to talk to each
other so much. Wouldn’t it create Too Much Information [TMI]?
“We shall soon be nothing but transparent heaps of jelly to each other,” a London writer
moaned in 1897. Others fretted that the telephone sped up life, demanding instant
reactions. “The use of the telephone gives little room for reflection,” wrote a British 
newspaper in 1899. “It does not improve the temper, and it engenders a feverishness in the
ordinary concerns of life which does not make for domestic happiness and comfort.”
Perhaps the strangest thing was being in the room while a friend talked to someone
else—someone outside the room. In 1880, Mark Twain wrote “A Telephonic Conversation,”
transcribing the half-a-conversation as he listened to his wife on the phone. To the observer,
as the skit pointed out, a telephone call sounded like disjointed nonsense. Even phone
companies worried about whether the device created new forms of rude behavior; a 1910
Bell ad warned about “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde at the Telephone.” …
Indeed, some believed the phone improved our social behavior, because it forced a
listener to pay closer attention to a speaker. Devoid of visual signals, we must be “all ears
and memory,” a pundit wrote in 1915: “The mind cannot wander.” Plus, by eradicating
distance, wouldn’t the phone reduce misunderstanding? War, even? “Someday we will build
up a world telephone system making necessary to all peoples the use of a common language,
or common understanding of languages, which will join all the people of the earth into one
brotherhood,” gushed John J. Carty, AT&T chief engineer, in 1907.
These utopian views, of course, were wildly optimistic. But the gloomy views of
pessimists, as [author, Claude] Fischer notes, didn’t come true either. Even Emily Post, the
etiquette expert, came around to the telephone. By the 1920s, she’d accepted “Hello” as a
suitable greeting, and even thought it was acceptable to invite someone to dinner with a
call. “Custom which has altered many ways and manners has taken away all opprobrium5
from the message,” she shrugged.
Nowadays, the telephone call seems like a quaint throwback to a gentler era. When
Jenna Birch, the journalist, started dating a man who insisted on calling her on the phone,
she found it warm and delightful—though her friends thought the behavior odd. Phone
calls now seem retro.
Academics have observed this shift, too. “My students just do not think of the phone as
a mechanism of vocal interaction—they think of that as very rare,” says John Durham
Peters, a communication professor at the University of Iowa, and author of Speaking Into
the Air. He doesn’t think the shift to texting has degraded our interactions, though. By the
middle of the 20th century, studies found that the telephone appeared not to have eroded
social contact—indeed, some research found those with phones wrote more old-fashioned
letters than those without. Similarly, modern surveys by the Pew Research Center have
found that teenagers who text the most are also those who spend the most time face to face
with friends. Communication, it seems, begets more communication, and—as Peters
argues—just because talk happens in text doesn’t mean it’s not meaningful.
“Media scholars,” he notes, “have this long romance with ‘conversation’ as the cure to
the disease of media.”
Still, it’s not hard to be dispirited by the divided attention so many of Turkle’s subjects
bemoaned in their lives. Indeed, Michéle Martin, of Carleton, thinks we’re living through
a replay of the telephone, where the things that made it valuable—instant
communications—are the same that made it annoying. “People believe they are liberated 
because they can bring the mobile phone everywhere,” Martin says. “But at the same time
they are slaves to it.”
The poet Carl Sandburg captured that dissonance in a 1916 poem about the telephone.
He imagined a telephone wire being aware of the disparate uses to which it was being
put—coursing with conversations both deep and frivolous. “It is love and war and money;
it is the fighting and the tears, the work and want / Death and laughter of men and women
passing through me, carrier of your speech.” }}
&&—Clive Thompson
excerpted and adapted from “OMG! We’ve Been Here B4”
Smithsonian, March 2016
&&
[[15 The first paragraph of the text serves to
(1) highlight the prevalence of texting
(2) stress the benefits of texting
(3) explain the origins of texting
(4) support the abolition of texting
16 As used in line 7, the word “surreptitiously” most
nearly means
(1) politely (3) secretively
(2) boldly (4) earnestly
17 The details in lines 16 through 19 reveal that the
telephone was initially
(1) associated with the supernatural
(2) not considered very useful
(3) often blamed for worker illness
(4) not used for social purposes
18 The use of the word “cooed” (line 23) implies that
telephone advertisers were
(1) helpful and patient
(2) strategic and persuasive
(3) childish and inconsiderate
(4) sarcastic and relentless
19 Lines 29 through 38 illustrate society’s
(1) enthusiasm about using new technology
(2) dependence on those proficient in new
technology
(3) grasp of the significance of new
technology
(4) concern about the impact of new
technology
20 The figurative language in line 39 implies that
telephone use would cause people to
(1) lose self-confidence and motivation
(2) lack substance and individuality
(3) attract danger and adversity
(4) become narrow-minded and uninformed
21 The statements from a Bell ad (lines 48 and 49)
and the AT&T chief engineer (lines 55 and 56)
offer
(1) contrasting perspectives on the potential
effects of the telephone
(2) strong support for the growing popularity of
the telephone
(3) alternative options for communicating with
family members
(4) insightful evaluation of the importance of
long-distance conversations
22 The “utopian views” of the early 1900s (line 57)
suggested that telephone use could
(1) improve local commerce
(2) encourage language studies
(3) promote global unity
(4) influence community values
23 The information about Emily Post (lines 58 through 62) contributes to a central idea that
(1) rules of proper behavior can be confusing
(2) norms of good conduct are universal
(3) concepts of politeness can evolve over time
(4) conventions of salutation depend on status
24 The quotations in lines 82 through 84 reflect a
sense of
(1) bias (3) suspense
(2) irony (4) resolution ]]
##June 2019##

{{
Eilis Lacey, sitting at the window of the upstairs living room in the house on Friary
Street, noticed her sister walking briskly from work. She watched Rose crossing the street
from sunlight into shade, carrying the new leather handbag that she had bought in Clerys
in Dublin [Ireland] in the sale. Rose was wearing a cream-coloured cardigan over her
shoulders. Her golf clubs were in the hall; in a few minutes, Eilis knew, someone would call
for her and her sister would not return until the summer evening had faded.
Eilis’s bookkeeping classes were almost ended now; she had a manual on her lap about
systems of accounting, and on the table behind her was a ledger where she had entered, as
her homework, on the debit and credit sides, the daily business of a company whose details
she had taken down in notes in the Vocational School the week before.
As soon as she heard the front door open, Eilis went downstairs. Rose, in the hall, was
holding her pocket mirror in front of her face. She was studying herself closely as she
applied lipstick and eye make-up before glancing at her overall appearance in the large hall
mirror, settling her hair. Eilis looked on silently as her sister moistened her lips and then
checked herself one more time in the pocket mirror before putting it away.
Their mother came from the kitchen to the hall. …
Rose reached into her handbag and took out her purse. She placed a one-shilling piece
on the hallstand. “That’s in case you want to go to the pictures,” she said to Eilis.
“And what about me?” her mother asked.
“She’ll tell you the story when she gets home,” Rose replied. …
All three laughed as they heard a car stop outside the door and beep its horn. Rose
picked up her golf clubs and was gone.
Later, as her mother washed the dishes and Eilis dried them, another knock came to the
door. When Eilis answered it, she found a girl whom she recognized from Kelly’s grocery
shop beside the cathedral.
“Miss Kelly sent me with a message for you,” the girl said. “She wants to see you.”
“Does she?” Eilis asked. “And did she say what it was about?”
“No. You’re just to call up there tonight.” …
Miss Kelly slowly came down the stairs into the hallway and turned on a light.
“Now,” she said, and repeated it as though it were a greeting. She did not smile. …
“I hear you have no job at all but a great head for figures.”
“Is that right?”
“Oh, the whole town, anyone who is anyone, comes into the shop and I hear
everything.” …
“And we are worked off our feet every Sunday here. Sure, there’s nothing else open. 
And we get all sorts, good, bad and indifferent. And, as a rule, I open after seven mass, and
between the end of nine o’clock mass until eleven mass is well over, there isn’t room to
move in this shop. I have Mary here to help, but she’s slow enough at the best of times, so
I was on the lookout for someone sharp, someone who would know people and give the
right change. But only on Sundays, mind. The rest of the week we can manage ourselves.
And you were recommended. I made inquiries about you and it would be seven and six a
week, it might help your mother a bit.” …
“Well?” Miss Kelly asked.
Eilis realized that she could not turn down the offer. It would be better than nothing
and, at the moment, she had nothing. …
Rose, at thirty, Eilis thought, was more glamorous every year, and, while she had had
several boyfriends, she remained single; she often remarked that she had a much better life
than many of her former schoolmates who were to be seen pushing prams through the
streets. Eilis was proud of her sister, of how much care she took with her appearance and
how much care she put into whom she mixed with in the town and the golf club. She knew
that Rose had tried to find her work in an office, and Rose was paying for her books now
that she was studying bookkeeping and rudimentary accountancy, but she knew also that
there was, at least for the moment, no work for anyone in Enniscorthy, no matter what their
qualifications.
Eilis did not tell Rose about her offer of work from Miss Kelly; instead, as she went
through her training, she saved up every detail to recount to her mother, who laughed and
made her tell some parts of the story again.
“That Miss Kelly,” her mother said, “is as bad as her mother and I heard from someone
who worked there that that woman was evil incarnate. And she was just a maid in Roche’s
before she married. And Kelly’s used to be a boarding house as well as a shop, and if you
worked for her, or even if you stayed there, or dealt in the shop, she was evil incarnate.
Unless, of course, you had plenty of money or were one of the clergy.”
“I’m just there until something turns up,” Eilis said.
“That’s what I said to Rose when I was telling her,” her mother replied. “And don’t listen
to her if she says anything to you.” …
One day at dinnertime Rose, who walked home from the office at one and returned at
a quarter to two, mentioned that she had played golf the previous evening with a priest, a
Father Flood, who had known their father years before and their mother when she was a
young girl. He was home from America on holidays, his first visit since before the war. …
“Anyway,” Rose said, “I invited him in for his tea when he said that he’d like to call on
you [the mother] and he’s coming tomorrow.” …
Father Flood was tall; his accent was a mixture of Irish and American. Nothing he said
could convince Eilis’s mother that she had known him or his family. His mother, he said,
had been a Rochford.
“I don’t think I knew her,” her mother said. “The only Rochford we knew was old
Hatchethead.” 
Father Flood looked at her solemnly. “Hatchethead was my uncle,” he said.
“Was he?” her mother asked. Eilis saw how close she was to nervous laughter. …
Rose poured more tea as Eilis quietly left the room, afraid that if she stayed she would
be unable to disguise an urge to begin laughing.
When she returned she realized that Father Flood had heard about her job at Miss
Kelly’s, had found out about her pay and had expressed shock at how low it was. He
inquired about her qualifications.
“In the United States,” he said, “there would be plenty of work for someone like you
and with good pay.” …
“In Brooklyn, where my parish is, there would be office work for someone who was
hard-working and educated and honest.”
“It’s very far away, though,” her mother said. “That’s the only thing.” …
“It would be a great opportunity, especially if you were young,” Father Flood said
finally. …
Eilis felt like a child when the doctor would come to the house, her mother listening
with cowed respect. It was Rose’s silence that was new to her; she looked at her now,
wanting her sister to ask a question or make a comment, but Rose appeared to be in a sort
of dream. As Eilis watched her, it struck her that she had never seen Rose look so beautiful.
And then it occurred to her that she was already feeling that she would need to remember
this room, her sister, this scene, as though from a distance. In the silence that had lingered,
she realized, it had somehow been tacitly arranged that Eilis would go to America. Father
Flood, she believed, had been invited to the house because Rose knew that he could
arrange it. … 
}}
&&—Colm Tóibín
excerpted and adapted from Brooklyn, 2009
Scribner&&
[[
1 The first three paragraphs serve to introduce
(1) a contrast between the sisters
(2) Rose’s condescension toward her sister
(3) the competition between the sisters
(4) Eilis’s concern about her sister
2 Lines 17 through 20 show Rose’s
(1) impatience with her mother
(2) restlessness in her home
(3) satisfaction with her work
(4) thoughtfulness toward her sister
3 The dialogue in lines 30 through 34 depicts Miss
Kelly as
(1) indecisive (3) jealous
(2) abrupt (4) bitter
4 The statement “And we are worked off our feet”
(line 35) illustrates that Miss Kelly’s shop is
(1) disorderly (3) bankrupt
(2) bustling (4) treasured
5 Eilis’s attitude toward Rose in lines 46 through 50
can best be described as
(1) protective (3) admiring
(2) critical (4) indifferent
6 The phrase “no work for anyone in Enniscorthy,
no matter what their qualifications” (lines 53 and 54) supports a central idea about Eilis’s
(1) respect for Miss Kelly’s successful business
(2) incentive to accept any employment
(3) pressure to pursue further education
(4) envy of Rose’s comfortable situation
7 The author’s choice of the word “mentioned”
(line 67) as well as Father Flood’s comments
(lines 86 and 87) most likely indicate that Rose is
(1) afraid that her mother will object to Father
Flood’s visit
(2) anticipating that Eilis will help her with the
meal
(3) careful about ensuring that Father Flood
feels welcomed
(4) subtle about putting her plan for Eilis in
motion
8 The recognition that a job “had somehow been
tacitly arranged” (line 97) suggests that
(1) an agreement was made without Rose’s
permission
(2) actions were taken to deceive Eilis’s family
(3) an agreement was made without Eilis’s
knowledge
(4) actions were taken to limit Father Flood’s
influence
9 Which quotation best reflects a central idea in the
passage?
(1) “All three laughed as they heard a car stop
outside the door and beep its horn” (line 21)
(2) “ ‘Miss Kelly sent me with a message for
you,’ the girl said. ‘She wants to see you’ ”
(line 26)
(3) “Rose, at thirty, Eilis thought, was more
glamorous every year, and, while she had
had several boyfriends, she remained single”
(lines 46 and 47)
(4) “ ‘In the United States,’ he said, ‘there would
be plenty of work for someone like you and
with good pay’ ” (lines 84 and 85)
]]
##August 2019##

{{“What is the difference between yesterday and tomorrow?” The Yupno man we were
interviewing, Danda, paused to consider his answer. A group of us sat on a hillside in the
Yupno Valley, a remote nook high in the mountains of Papua New Guinea. Only days
earlier we had arrived on a single-engine plane. After a steep hike from the grass airstrip,
we found ourselves in the village of Gua, one of about 20 Yupno villages dotting the rugged
terrain. We came all the way here because we are interested in time—in how Yupno people
understand concepts such as past, present and future. Are these ideas universal, or are they
products of our language, our culture and our environment?
As we interviewed Danda and others in the village, we listened to what they said about
time, but we paid even closer attention to what they did with their hands as they spoke.
Gestures can be revealing. Ask English speakers about the difference between yesterday
and tomorrow, and they might thrust a hand over the shoulder when referring to the past
and then forward when referring to the future. Such unreflective movements reveal a
fundamental way of thinking in which the past is at our backs, something that we “leave
behind,” and the future is in front of us, something to “look forward” to. Would a Yupno
speaker do the same?
Danda was making just the kinds of gestures we were hoping for. As he explained the
Yupno word for “yesterday,” his hand swept backward; as he mentioned “tomorrow,” it
leaped forward. We all sat looking up a steep slope toward a jagged ridge, but as the light
faded, we changed the camera angle, spinning around so that we and Danda faced in the
opposite direction, downhill. With our backs now to the ridge, we looked over the Yupno
River meandering toward the Bismarck Sea. “Let’s go over that one more time,” we
suggested.
Danda obliged, again using his hands to enliven his explanation. But as we expected, his
gestures had changed. As he referred to “yesterday,” he now gestured, not backward, but
forward. As he explained “tomorrow,” he gestured back over his shoulder, up toward the
ridge. Inconsistent as these movements may seem, Danda was not confused. His gestures
expressed the Yupno way of understanding time, one in which the future is not something
in front of you—it is uphill. By having interviewees change sitting positions, we were able
to show that it does not matter whether the slope is in front of you, behind you, to your left
or to your right. The Yupno conception of time is not anchored to the body, as the Western
one is, but to the world and its contours. By investigating cases such as these, we and other
researchers are starting to piece together an answer to a question that has puzzled thinkers
for centuries: How are human beings able to make sense of time?
Humans, like creatures ranging from amoebas and bees to mockingbirds and elephants,
come with built-in equipment for perceiving some aspects of time, such as the rhythms of
night and day, the waxing and waning of the moon, and the turning of the seasons. What
separates humans from other animals is that we do not stop at merely sensing time’s
passage. We tackle time head-on—or at least we try. We dice it into units, even ones that go
beyond what is perceivable, such as milliseconds, or that transcend our life span, such as
millennia. We depict time graphically, talk about it ceaselessly and even make gestural
models of it in the air as we talk. In short, humans everywhere create and rely on time
concepts—ideas about the nature of time that allow us to make plans, follow recipes, share
memories and discuss possible futures.
But what are our time concepts made of? What is going on in the mind of a speaker of
Yupno, or English for that matter, when answering our question about the difference
between yesterday and tomorrow? Recent research in cognitive science is uncovering a
surprising answer. Across cultures, human time concepts depend, in large part, on
metaphor—in particular, on what cognitive scientists call conceptual metaphor, in which we
think about something, in this case time, in terms of something else, in this case space.
Thus, we build our understanding of duration, of time’s passage and of sequences of events
out of familiar spatial ideas such as size, movement and location. The latest findings reveal
that this basic “time is like space” metaphor appears to be universal around the world—yet
it also takes strikingly different forms from one culture to the next. …
We sometimes imagine ourselves inside the sequence of events, with past, present and
future conceptualized as locations where we once were, currently are and will be. This
internal perspective on time motivates English expressions such as “the week ahead of us.”
When we take the external perspective, however, we view the succession of events from the
outside, much like watching a lineup of people all moving in one direction. This external
perspective motivates phrases such as “a reception follows the ceremony.”
These basic ideas about time are expressed spatially in a dazzling variety of unrelated
languages, across cultures that differ in every way imaginable. The idea that temporal5
sequences are like queues of people is found, for example, in Tamil (India), Maori (New
Zealand), Greenlandic (Greenland) and Sesotho (South Africa), where the idea that “spring
follows winter” can be expressed as “spring is in the footprints left by winter.”
But now we come to a wrinkle. Even as people of all cultures lean on spatial concepts
for understanding time, exactly which spatial metaphors they use can vary. Take the internal
perspective, future-in-front metaphor mentioned earlier, found in English and many other
languages. This metaphor was long thought to be universal, but in 2006 members of our
team investigated a striking counterexample in South America. In Aymara, a language
spoken high in the Andes, many phrases suggest the opposite metaphor is at work. For
example, the expression “a long time ago” could be loosely rendered in Aymara as “a lot of
time in front.” Analysis of video-recorded interviews with 30 speakers showed conclusively
that Aymara speakers gesture according to this future-behind, past-in-front metaphor. The
pattern is especially strong among older speakers who do not speak Spanish, which has the
future-in-front metaphor common to English and most European languages. …
The human reliance on spatial metaphors for abstract thinking may have deep
evolutionary roots and is not likely to change any time soon. The particular metaphors we
lean on, however, are a product of culture—not of biological evolution—and are much
more malleable. Literacy is a recent and rapid achievement in the scope of the human saga,
but it already has had profound consequences for how people conceptualize time. New 
spatial metaphors for our dearest abstract concepts will almost certainly enter the picture
as our culture evolves. E-mail in-boxes show the most recent items at the top, but text
messages go the other way, with the newest at the bottom. And so we must wonder: Which
way will time flow next? }}
&&—Kensy Cooperrider and Rafael Núñez
excerpted from “How We Make Sense of Time”
Scientific American Mind, November/December 2016 &&
[[
15 A primary function of the first paragraph is to
introduce
(1) a challenge to the author’s research
(2) the goals of the author’s research
(3) an ease of accessing the Yupno villages
(4) the hardness of life in the Yupno villages
16 As used in line 13, the word “unreflective” most
nearly means
(1) unreliable (3) unconscious
(2) unnatural (4) uncertain
17 The details in lines 21 through 25 show that the
author
(1) wanted to influence the way Danda would
react
(2) had a theory about how Danda would
respond
(3) needed to complete the interview with
Danda before dark
(4) had difficulty in communicating
instructions to Danda
18 Lines 31 and 32 support a central idea by
demonstrating
(1) a contrast between small and large
societies
(2) the difference in interpretation between
cultures
(3) the relationship between language and
customs
(4) a change in behavior adapted over time
19 Which statement best summarizes the
information in lines 35 through 37?
(1) Nature interferes with creatures’
awareness of time.
(2) All creatures align their behavior to lunar
cycles.
(3) Physical size inhibits creatures’
adaptations to seasonal change.
(4) All creatures have some awareness of time.
20 The statements “We tackle time head-on” and
“We dice it into units” (line 39) emphasize
human attempts to
(1) enjoy the passage of time
(2) structure the concept of time
(3) control the speed of time
(4) make efficient use of time
21 Which word helps clarify the meaning of
“transcend” (line 40)?
(1) “beyond” (line 40)
(2) “milliseconds” (line 40)
(3) “span” (line 40)
(4) “depict” (line 41)
22 Researchers found that humans can best understand time (lines 41 through 54) through
(1) examination of philosophical explanations of
change
(2) observation of the regularity in daily
schedules
(3) using figurative language to express
complex ideas
(4) recording the beginning, ending, and
duration of events
23 The text is developed primarily through the
use of
(1) point counterpoint
(2) detailed examples
(3) parallel structure
(4) chronological sequence
24 Which quotation reflects a central idea of the
text?
(1) “By having interviewees change sitting positions, we were able to show that it does not
matter whether the slope is in front of you,
behind you, to your left or to your right”
(lines 29 through 31)
(2) “Recent research in cognitive science is
uncovering a surprising answer” (lines 47
and 48)
(3) “The latest findings reveal that this basic
‘time is like space’ metaphor appears to be
universal around the world—yet it also takes
strikingly different forms from one culture to
the next” (lines 52 through 54)
(4) “New spatial metaphors for our dearest
abstract concepts will almost certainly enter
the picture as our culture evolves” (lines 81
through 83)]]
##August 2019##

{{
One would think now that she was living in Chicago, in the same city as her [favorite son]
Inocencio, the Grandmother would find happiness. But no, that wasn’t the case. The
Grandmother was meaner than ever. She was unhappy. And didn’t know she was unhappy,
the worst kind of unhappiness of all. As a result, everyone was in a hurry to find her a house
of some sort. A bungalow, a duplex, a brownstone, an apartment. Something, anything,
because the Grandmother’s gloominess was the contagious kind, infecting every member of
the household as fiercely as the bubonic plague.
Because Baby [Inocencio’s brother] and Ninfa’s apartment had room to accommodate
a guest, it was understood the Grandmother would stay with them until she could find a
house of her own. This had seemed all well and fine when the plans were made long-
distance with Uncle Baby shouting into the receiver that he insisted, that he and Ninfa
wouldn’t think of her staying anywhere else, that the girls were thrilled she was coming. But
now that she was actually sleeping in [granddaughter] Amor’s narrow bed with radios and
televisions chattering throughout the apartment, and doors and cupboards banging, and the
stink of cigarettes soaking into everything, even her skin, and trucks rumbling past and
shaking the building like an earthquake, and sirens and car horns at all hours, well, it just
about drove her crazy; even the rowdy Chicago wind, a rough, moody brute who took one
look at you and laughed. …
All day and all night the expressway traffic whooshed past, keeping the Grandmother
awake. She napped when she could, even when the apartment and its inhabitants jabbered
the loudest. She was tired all the time, and yet she had trouble sleeping, often waking once
or twice in the early morning, and in her sleeplessness, padding in her house slippers to the
living room, where the front windows looked out onto the lanes of traffic, the expressway
billboards, and the frighteningly grimy factories beyond. The trucks and cars, furious to get
from here to there, never paused for a moment, the sound of the expressway almost not a
sound at all, but a roar like the voice of the sea trapped inside a shell.
She pressed her forehead against the cold glass and sighed. If the Grandmother had
consulted her feelings, she would’ve understood why it was taking her so long to buy a new
house and settle in Chicago, but she was not a woman given to reflection. She missed her
old house too much and was too proud to admit she’d made a mistake. She couldn’t go
backward, could she? She was stuck, in the middle of nowhere it seemed, halfway between
here and where?
The Grandmother missed the routine of her mornings, her three-minute eggs and
bolillo breakfasts. She missed rubbing her big toe along the octagon tiles of her bathroom
floor. But most of all, she missed her own bed with its mattress sagging in the center, the
familiar scent and weight of her blankets, the way morning entered gradually from the left 
as the sun climbed over the east courtyard wall, the one topped with a cockscomb of glass
shards to keep out the thieves. Why do we get so used to waking up in a certain room? And
when we aren’t in our own bed and wake up in another, a terrible fear for a moment, like
death.
There is nothing worse than being a houseguest for too long, especially when your host
is a relative. The Grandmother felt like a prisoner. She hated climbing up the three flights
of stairs, and always arrived clutching her heart, convinced she was having an attack, like
the one that killed Narciso [her husband]. Really, once she was upstairs, she couldn’t even
bear the thought of coming back down. What a barbarity! …
To visit Chicago is one thing, to live there another. This was not the Chicago of her
vacations, where one is always escorted to the lake shore, to the gold coast, driven along the
winding lanes of traffic of Lake Shore Drive in the shadow of beautiful apartment buildings,
along State Street and Michigan Avenue to window-shop at least. And perhaps taken on an
excursion on the lake. How is it she hadn’t noticed the expression of the citizens, not the
ones fluttering in and out of taxis, but the ones at bus stops, hopping like sparrows, shivering
and peering anxiously for the next bus, and those descending wearily into the filthy bowels
of the subway like the souls condemned to purgatory.
At first the Grandmother was thrilled by the restaurants and the big discount chains—
but then the routine got to be too familiar. Saturdays in search of houses that were not to
her liking. Dark brick houses with small, squinty windows, gloomy apartments, or damp
little bungalows, everything somber and sad and not letting in enough light, and no
courtyards, a dank, mean gangway, a small patch of thin grass called a garden, and maybe a
bald tree in front. This wasn’t what she had in mind.
And as the weeks and months passed, and she was still without a house, the rainy, cold
autumn weather began and only made her feel worse. There was the Chicago winter
coming that everyone had warned her about, and she was already so cold and miserable she
didn’t feel much like leaving her room, let alone the building. She blamed Ninfa, who kept
lowering the heat in order to save money. The Grandmother confined herself to bed,
satisfied only when she was under several layers of blankets. …
But nothing, nothing in the Grandmother’s imagination prepared her for the horrors of
a Chicago winter. It was not the picturesque season of Christmas, but the endless tundra
of January, February, and March. Daylight dimmed to a dull pewter. The sun a thick piece
of ice behind a dirty woolen sky. It was a cold like you can’t imagine, a barbarous thing, a
knife in the bone, a cold so cold it burned the lungs if one could even believe such a cold.
And the mountains of filthy snow shoveled in huge heaps, the chunks of ice on the sidewalk
that could kill an aged citizen. —Oh, this is nothing, you should’ve been here for the Big
Snow, the grandchildren bragged, speaking of the recent storm of ’68.
Big snow or little snow, it was all the same after the novelty of snow had worn off. A
nuisance, a deadly thing, an exaggerated, long, drawn-out ordeal that made one feel like
dying, that killed one slowly, a torture. Let me die in February, let me die rather than have
to step out the door again, please, the Grandmother thought to herself, dreading having to
dress like a monster to go outside. —Ay, ya no puedo. I can’t anymore, I can’t. And just
when she could no longer, when she could no longer find the strength, the drive, the will to 
keep on living, when she was ready to fold into herself and let her spirit die, just then, and
only then, did April arrive with sky the color of hope and branches filled with possibilities. }}
&&—Sandra Cisneros
excerpted and adapted from Caramelo, 2002
Alfred A. Knopf
&&
[[1 The figurative language in lines 5 through 7
establishes a tone of
(1) loneliness (3) desperation
(2) confusion (4) shame
2 The second paragraph contributes to a central
idea by exposing
(1) a contrast between the Grandmother’s
expectations and reality
(2) the family’s denial of the Grandmother’s
needs
(3) a struggle between the family’s obligations
and desires
(4) the Grandmother’s appreciation of the family’s lifestyle
3 The details in lines 33 through 38 convey a feeling
of
(1) patience (3) anticipation
(2) annoyance (4) nostalgia
4 Lines 46 through 49 best serve to
(1) offer a remedy
(2) present a contrast
(3) develop a character
(4) raise a question
5 The comparison drawn in lines 50 through 53
expresses the Grandmother’s
(1) awareness of varying experiences of city life
(2) contempt for the residents of the city
(3) frustration with the inconvenience of city life
(4) inability to accept the beauty of the city
6 The description in lines 54 through 59 highlights
the Grandmother’s
(1) excitement (3) disillusionment
(2) hostility (4) optimism
7 Lines 64 and 65 reveal that the Grandmother is
(1) rejected by her children
(2) withdrawing from the family
(3) insensitive to the needs of others
(4) fearful of becoming ill
8 The author’s use of the words “barbarity” (line 45)
and “barbarous” (line 69) emphasizes the
(1) rejection of the Grandmother
(2) cruelty of the family
(3) harshness of the situation
(4) hopelessness of the future
9 Lines 78 through 81 suggest
(1) an unlikely comparison
(2) a mysterious atmosphere
(3) an escalation of conflict
(4) a shift in perspective
10 Which statement best clarifies the idea that the Grandmother “was not a woman given to reflection”
(line 29)?
(1) “She was unhappy. And didn’t know she was unhappy, the worst kind of unhappiness of all.”
(lines 3 and 4)
(2) “All day and all night the expressway traffic whooshed past, keeping the Grandmother awake.”
(lines 19 and 20)
(3) “She missed rubbing her big toe along the octagon tiles of her bathroom floor.” (lines 34 and 35)
(4) “At first the Grandmother was thrilled by the restaurants and the big discount chains—but then the
routine got to be too familiar.” (lines 54 and 55)]]
##January 2020##

{{The nightmare began when my husband walked into our kitchen and said, “I’ve had this
song stuck in my head all day …”
No! I thought. Don’t say it!
“Remember that song from the original Karate Kid movie?” he continued.
For the love of God, no!
“You know how it goes. ‘You’re the best around … na na na na na, na na na na. You’re
the best around …”
It was too late. Now I had an earworm — a song, melody or jingle that gets stuck in your
head.
The worst part? I only knew that same line. I walked around humming it for days. I tried
to shake it by singing along with tunes playing on my car radio while I was out running
errands. For a brief time, Van Halen’s “Runnin’ With the Devil” replaced it.
But in no time at all, that one line from “You’re the Best,” sung by Joe Esposito on the
The Karate Kid soundtrack, was back.
Perhaps if I heard more of the song in my head, it wouldn’t be as annoying. But just this
one line? Over and over and over again? It was pure torture. I needed to do something
drastic. I busted out that 1980s hit, “The Safety Dance” by Men Without Hats. After singing
it a few times, the earworm was gone.
I knew I’d get another one, though. About 90 percent of people experience earworms
at least once a week, according to the Earworm Project run by the Music, Mind and Brain
group at Goldsmiths, University of London.
“Music lovers, specifically people who ascribe more importance to music or people
who spend more time listening to music, have more frequent and longer earworm
episodes,” says Kelly Jakubowski, a researcher with the Earworm Project. …
To find out what causes earworms and how to get rid of them, I contacted the man
known as “Dr. Earworm,” James Kellaris, a marketing professor at the University of
Cincinnati. Certainly with a nickname like that, he would know something.
Kellaris began studying earworms in 1999. A former professional musician prone to
getting earworms himself, he eventually became a marketing professor “interested in how
marketers use music to achieve various commercial goals,” he says. “It was a perfect storm
to create an earworms researcher.”
He explained to me that when we get an earworm, the tune seems to repeat itself
involuntarily, which is why experts consider earworms involuntary musical imagery (INMI).
This was exactly what “You’re the Best” had done to me.
So what, precisely, was happening in my brain when I couldn’t shake that tune?
Jakubowski contributed to a May 2015 study led by Nicolas Farrugia, a postdoctoral
researcher with the Earworm Project, that demonstrated auditory and inhibitory-related
areas play a role in earworms as well.
The researchers examined 44 healthy subjects, all between 25 and 70 years old and all
participants of a past neuroimaging study run by the Cambridge Medical Research 
Council’s Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit. These subjects took an online survey that
measured both the extent of their musical training and how strongly INMIs impacted them.
For example, the survey wanted to know how strong of a negative impact INMIs had on
them or if INMIs were actually helpful while they went about their everyday activities.
When they examined these participants’ brain images, one pattern in particular stuck
out: People who got earworms more often had a thinner right frontal cortex, which is
involved in inhibition, and a thinner temporal cortex, which processes sensory stimuli like
sound. In other words, these people’s brains just weren’t as good at suppressing the random
song that might pop into their heads.
Why we get earworms, unfortunately, remains a scientific mystery. “We know that songs
that are ‘catchy’ — short, simple, repetitive and contain some incongruity — are most likely
to get stuck,” Kellaris says. Most people are more likely to get a song like “Don’t Worry, Be
Happy” stuck in their heads than, say, a Mahler symphony. And some things exacerbate
them: frequency and duration of exposure to music, worry, stress, fatigue and idleness.
Considering that my husband kept singing the snippet while I was tired and stressed,
I can see why it got stuck. But my earworms have been relatively innocuous. Even though
they’re annoying, I can eventually get rid of them. Some people can’t, though.
Part of Kellaris’ earliest research involved mailing a questionnaire to about 1,000
respondents at four U.S. universities. He asked them if they’d ever had an earworm, for how
long, how often it happened, how it made them feel, etc.
One respondent claimed to have had a song stuck in his head since 1978. This is known
as intrusive musical imagery (IMI), a musical obsession that’s chronic and highly distracting
to a person’s everyday life and work. According to Dean McKay, a psychology professor at
Fordham University, my short-lived earworm was nothing compared to an IMI.
But now I was concerned. Could my future earworms turn into these IMIs? Is there a
way to prevent this from happening?
McKay co-authored a June 2014 study titled “Musical obsessions: A comprehensive
review of neglected clinical phenomena.” For this study, McKay and other international
colleagues, all of whom treat obsessive-compulsive disorder, created the first
comprehensive review of musical obsessions. They compiled a database of 96 case study
descriptions of people with severe musical obsessions — the largest compilation assembled
on this topic. They determined the characteristics of musical obsessions such as IMIs and
compared them with earworms, musical hallucinations and visual obsessional imagery.
The group’s research showed that IMIs can be treated by using a method known as
distraction — coming up with a competing melody to think about that would get rid of the
IMI. That’s exactly what I had done, albeit unknowingly, when I used “The Safety Dance”
to stop my earworm.
McKay says my earworm was pesky because I knew only that one part of the song. He
suggests if I have just a portion of a song looping in my brain in the future, I can try another
method called exposure — simply listening to the entire song. “It’s like a completion task,”
he says. “Once you know the whole song, then there’s no need for it to be stuck in your
head.” 
Another form of distraction is to sing the song out loud, but change some of the words
or slightly throw off the melody. One of McKay’s patients had an IMI based on a Taylor
Swift song. “We made up some other words for it,” he explains. “We messed up the melody
a bit, but not so much that it wasn’t recognizable as still being that song, and then it faded.”
McKay stresses that this is the only case he’s tried this in, so it’s not a forgone conclusion
this kind of distraction would work in other instances.
What I wanted to know was if the earworm I get today could become the IMI of
tomorrow.
“Highly improbable,” he says.
“You’re the best,” I reply.
Oh no. 
}}
&&—Michele Wojciechowski
excerpted from “Get That Song Outta My Head!”
Discover, March 2016&&
[[15 The anecdote in lines 1 through 9 best serves to
(1) make a prediction (3) issue a warning
(2) establish a conflict (4) propose a theory
16 Knowledge of earworms (lines 28 through 31)
can be utilized in
(1) education (3) recording music
(2) advertising (4) product design
17 Details regarding individuals’ brain structure
(lines 45 through 49) serve to
(1) estimate the duration of earworms
(2) reject a hypothesis about earworms
(3) demonstrate the danger of earworms
(4) explain a susceptibility to earworms
18 As used in line 53, “exacerbate” most nearly
means
(1) postpone (3) contradict
(2) intensify (4) prevent
19 Lines 56 and 57 serve to highlight a central idea
that earworms are
(1) habitual and damaging
(2) insignificant, yet pleasurable
(3) bothersome, yet temporary
(4) familiar and therapeutic
20 The research of Professor James Kellaris (lines 58
through 64) supports the idea that IMIs may
(1) disrupt ordinary routine
(2) cause insomnia
(3) distort hearing
(4) interfere with learning
21 According to studies (lines 74 through 77), one
way of treating IMIs involves
(1) toleration (3) substitution
(2) medication (4) conversation
22 The statement “Oh no” (line 93) reflects the
narrator’s
(1) humorous acceptance
(2) feeling of rejection
(3) sense of finality
(4) calm anticipation
23 Which lines best summarize a central idea of the
text?
(1) “Music lovers … have more frequent and
longer earworm episodes” (lines 22 through 24)
(2) “He explained to me that when we get an
earworm, the tune seems to repeat itself
involuntarily” (lines 32 and 33)
(3) “He suggests if I have just a portion of a song
looping in my brain … I can try another
method called exposure” (lines 78 through 80)
(4) “it’s not a forgone conclusion this kind of
distraction would work in other instances”
(lines 87 and 88)
24 The text is presented from the narrator’s perspective in order to
(1) distinguish the narrator’s personal beliefs from research findings
(2) highlight the narrator’s disagreement with current treatments
(3) create an objective tone throughout the text
(4) convey scientific information through a personal experience]]
##January 2020##

{{
I never see asters without remembering her—never the haze of their pink and lavender
blossoming as summer dies, but her name is in my heart: Reverdy, Reverdy.
I never say her name—not to anyone. When people ask about her, as they do
occasionally even now, I say “she” and “her.” “She is still gone.” “We do not hear from her.”
“Yes, she was very beautiful,” I say. But not her name. …
I have longed all these years to tell her how it was the night she left. You may scarcely
believe it, but it is worse to have a good thing that is not true believed about you, than a
bad. To be thanked for an act you meant as harmful—every year those words sharpen until
at last they cut like knives.
You mustn’t think she was like me. She wasn’t in the least. Not inside nor out. She had
dark hair like a cloud. Yes, really. It wasn’t curly but it didn’t hang straight. It billowed out.
And her face—oh, you mustn’t think it was anything like mine. She had hazel eyes and a
pointed chin. And you’ve seen lots of people, haven’t you, with very live, animated faces and
dead eyes? It was just the other way with Reverdy. Her face was always quiet, but her eyes
were so alive they glowed. Oh, she was the most beautiful, most alive, and most loving girl
in the world, and she was my sister.
I cannot bear for people to say we were alike—she was really good, and I was just a
show-off. …
One evening in October, when it was almost dark, I was coming home from the library,
coasting across lots in the hot dry Santa Ana that had been blowing all day. Cool weather
had already come, and then three days of this hot wind. Dust everywhere. Under your
eyelids, between your fingers, in your mouth. When we went to school in the morning the
first thing we’d do would be to write our names in the dust on our desks. I had on a skirt
full of pleats that evening, and I pulled the pleats out wide so the skirt made a sort of sail
and the wind almost pushed me along. I watched the tumble weeds blowing, and listened
to the wind in the clump of eucalyptus by the barn, and felt miserable and gritty. Then
I saw Reverdy walking up and down the driveway by the house and I felt suddenly glad.
Reverdy loved the wind, even Santa Ana’s, and she was always out walking or running when
the wind blew, if she didn’t have any work to do. She liked to carry a scarf in her hand and
hold it up in the wind so she could feel it tug and snap. When I saw Reverdy I forgot how
dusty and hot the wind was and remembered only how alive it was and how Reverdy loved
it. I ran toward her but she didn’t wave or say a word, and when she reached the end of the
driveway she turned her back on me and started walking toward the barn.
Before I had a chance to say a word to her, Mother came to the door and called to me
to come in and not talk to Reverdy. As soon as I heard her voice before I could see her face,
I knew there was some trouble—some trouble with Reverdy—and I knew what kind of
trouble, too. I went in the house and shut the door. The sound of Reverdy’s footsteps on the
pepper leaves in the driveway outside stopped and Mother put her head out of the window
and said, “You’re to keep walking, Reverdy, and not stop. Understand? I want to hear
footsteps and I want them to be brisk.” Then she closed the window, though it was hard to
do against the wind.
I stood with my face to the window and looked out into the dusty, windy dark where I
could just see Reverdy in her white dress walking up and down, never stopping, her head
bent, not paying any attention to the wind she loved. It made me feel sick to see her walking
up and down there in the dusty dark like a homeless dog, while we were snug inside.
But Mother came over to the window and took the curtain out of my hand and put it
back over the glass. Then she put her arm around my shoulders and pressed me close to her
and said, “Mother’s own dear girl who has never given her a moment’s trouble.”
That wasn’t true. Mother had plenty of fault to find with me usually … but it was sweet
to have her speak lovingly to me, to be cherished and appreciated. Maybe you can’t
understand that, maybe your family was always loving, maybe you were always dear little
daughter, or maybe, a big golden wonder-boy. But not me and not my mother. So try to
understand how it was with me, then, and how happy it made me to have Mother put her
arms about me. Yes, I thought, I’m Mother’s comfort. And I forgot I couldn’t make a boy
look at me if I wanted to and blamed Reverdy for not being able to steer clear of them the
way I did. She just hasn’t any consideration for any of us, I decided. Oh, I battened on
Reverdy’s downfall all right. …
[Our ten-year-old brother] Chummie came back from feeding his rabbits and sat with
me in the dark room. Then I got the idea of a way to show Mother how much I was her
comfort and mainstay, her darling younger daughter, dutiful and harmonious as hell.
Mother wanted me and Chummie to be musical—she’d given up with Reverdy—but
Chummie and I had taken lessons for years. Usually we kicked and howled at having to play,
so, I thought, if we play now it will show Mother how thoughtful and reliable we are. It will
cheer her up while she’s out there in the wind talking to that bad Reverdy. Yes, she will
think, I have one fine, dependable daughter, anyway. …
I was asleep when Reverdy did come in. She sat down on the side of my bed, and it was
just her sitting there that finally awakened me. Then, when I was awake she picked up my
hand and began to press my finger-tips one by one, and spoke in the sweetest, kindest voice.
You’d never have thought to hear her that she had just spent four or five hours the way she
did.
She said, “I’ll never forget your playing for me, Sister. Never. Never. It was kind and
beautiful of you. Just when I thought I was all alone I heard you telling me not to be sad.”
Then she leaned over and kissed me and said, “Good night, now. I’ve put some asters in
water for you. They’re a little wilted but I think they’ll be all right by morning. Go to sleep,
now. I’ll never forget, Clare.”
If I could only have told her,—if I could only have told her then. If I could have said to
her, “I was playing for Mother, Reverdy. I guess I was jealous of your always having the
limelight. I wanted to be first for once.” If I could only have said, “I love you more than
anything, Reverdy, but I have a mean soul,” she would have put her cheek to mine and said,
“Oh, Clare, what a thing to say.”
But I couldn’t do it and next morning she was gone. And there on the table by my bed
were the asters she had left for me, grown fresh over night. }}
&&—Jessamyn West
excerpted and adapted from “Reverdy”
The New Mexico Quarterly Review, Spring 1943
&&
[[
1 In the context of the passage as a whole, lines 3
through 5 suggest that Clare
(1) feels humiliated by her sister’s actions
(2) is pained by the memory of her sister
(3) feels resentful about her sister’s choices
(4) is secretive about the life of her sister
2 The figurative language in lines 14 and 15 helps
to establish
(1) Reverdy’s mischievousness
(2) Reverdy’s appreciation of attention
(3) Clare’s admiration for Reverdy
(4) Clare’s aggressiveness toward Reverdy
3 The description of each sister’s reaction to the
wind (lines 19 through 33) serves to
(1) demonstrate a contrast between the sisters
(2) foreshadow a conflict between the sisters
(3) emphasize the sisters’ appreciation of nature
(4) illustrate the sisters’ competitive relationship
4 Clare’s reaction to Reverdy’s punishment (lines 44 and 45) reveals that Clare is
(1) ashamed of Reverdy’s attitude
(2) concerned about Reverdy’s reputation
(3) envious of Reverdy’s strength
(4) distressed by Reverdy’s situation
5 Clare’s reflections in lines 49 through 54 convey
her
(1) rejection of tenderness
(2) acceptance of her mistake
(3) justification for her behavior
(4) reluctance to change
6 As used in line 56, the phrase “battened on” most
nearly means
(1) questioned (3) learned from
(2) benefited from (4) imagined
7 Which statement best explains Clare’s motivation
for playing music (lines 62 through 65)?
(1) Clare wants to be her family’s mediator.
(2) Clare wants to distract her brother.
(3) Clare wants to console her sister.
(4) Clare wants to be her mother’s favorite.
8 In the context of the passage as a whole, the
author suggests that the family interactions have
been influenced by
(1) Reverdy’s love for her mother
(2) Mother’s reliance upon Clare
(3) Reverdy’s behavior toward Clare
(4) Mother’s attitude toward Reverdy
9 The occasional use of second person point of view
contributes to the reader’s
(1) optimism (3) curiosity
(2) sympathy (4) suspicion
10 Which quotation best reflects a central idea of
the text?
(1) “You may scarcely believe it, but it is worse
to have a good thing that is not true believed
about you, than a bad.” (lines 6 through 8)
(2) “I watched the tumble weeds blowing, and
listened to the wind in the clump of eucalyptus
by the barn, and felt miserable and gritty.”
(lines 25 and 26)
(3) “And I forgot I couldn’t make a boy look at
me if I wanted to and blamed Reverdy for
not being able to steer clear of them the way
I did.” (lines 54 through 56)
(4) “Usually we kicked and howled at having to
play, so, I thought, if we play now it will
show Mother how thoughtful and reliable
we are.” (lines 62 and 63)]]
##June 2021##
{{
…Dislike of noise has produced some of history’s most eager advocates of silence, as
[Hillel] Schwartz explains in his book Making Noise: From Babel to the Big Bang and
Beyond. In 1859, the British nurse and social reformer Florence Nightingale wrote,
“Unnecessary noise is the most cruel absence of care that can be inflicted on sick or well.”
Every careless clatter or banal bit of banter, Nightingale argued, can be a source of alarm,
distress, and loss of sleep for recovering patients. She even quoted a lecture that identified
“sudden noises” as a cause of death among sick children.
Surprisingly, recent research supports some of Nightingale’s zealous claims. In the mid
20th century, epidemiologists discovered correlations between high blood pressure and
chronic noise sources like highways and airports. Later research seemed to link noise to
increased rates of sleep loss, heart disease, and tinnitus. (It’s this line of research that
hatched the 1960s-era notion of “noise pollution,” a name that implicitly refashions
transitory noises as toxic and long-lasting.)
Studies of human physiology help explain how an invisible phenomenon can have such
a pronounced physical effect. Sound waves vibrate the bones of the ear, which transmit
movement to the snail-shaped cochlea. The cochlea converts physical vibrations into
electrical signals that the brain receives. The body reacts immediately and powerfully to
these signals, even in the middle of deep sleep. Neurophysiological research suggests that
noises first activate the amygdalae, clusters of neurons located in the temporal lobes of the
brain, associated with memory formation and emotion. The activation prompts an
immediate release of stress hormones like cortisol. People who live in consistently loud
environments often experience chronically elevated levels of stress hormones.
Just as the whooshing of a hundred individual cars accumulates into an irritating wall of
background noise, the physical effects of noise add up. In 2011, the World Health
Organization tried to quantify its health burden in Europe. It concluded that the 340
million residents of western Europe—roughly the same population as that of the United
States—annually lost a million years of healthy life because of noise. It even argued that
3,000 heart disease deaths were, at their root, the result of excessive noise. …
Silence first began to appear in scientific research as a control or baseline, against which
scientists compare the effects of noise or music. Researchers have mainly studied it by
accident, as physician Luciano Bernardi did in a 2006 study of the physiological effects of
music. “We didn’t think about the effect of silence,” he says. “That was not meant to be
studied specifically.”
He was in for a quiet surprise. Bernardi observed physiological metrics for two dozen
test subjects while they listened to six musical tracks. He found that the impacts of music
could be read directly in the bloodstream, via changes in blood pressure, carbon dioxide,
and circulation in the brain. (Bernardi and his son are both amateur musicians, and they
wanted to explore a shared interest.) “During almost all sorts of music, there was a 
physiological change compatible with a condition of arousal,” he explains.
This effect made sense, given that active listening requires alertness and attention. But
the more striking finding appeared between musical tracks. Bernardi and his colleagues
discovered that randomly inserted stretches of silence also had a drastic effect, but in the
opposite direction. In fact, two-minute silent pauses proved far more relaxing than either
“relaxing” music or a longer silence played before the experiment started.
The blank pauses that Bernardi considered irrelevant, in other words, became the most
interesting object of study. Silence seemed to be heightened by contrasts, maybe because it
gave test subjects a release from careful attention. “Perhaps the arousal is something that
concentrates the mind in one direction, so that when there is nothing more arousing, then
you have deeper relaxation,” he says.
In 2006, Bernardi’s paper on the physiological effects of silence was the mostdownloaded research in the journal Heart. One of his key findings—that silence is
heightened by contrasts—is reinforced by neurological research. In 2010, Michael Wehr,
who studies sensory processing in the brain at the University of Oregon, observed the brains
of mice during short bursts of sound. The onset of a sound prompts a specialized network
of neurons in the auditory cortex to light up. But when sounds continue in a relatively
constant manner, the neurons largely stop reacting. “What the neurons really do is signal
whenever there’s a change,” Wehr says.
The sudden onset of silence is a type of change too, and this fact led Wehr to a surprise.
Before his 2010 study, scientists knew that the brain reacts to the start of silences. (This
ability helps us react to dangers, for example, or distinguish words in a sentence.) But
Wehr’s research extended those findings by showing that, remarkably, the auditory cortex
has a separate network of neurons that fire when silence begins. “When a sound suddenly
stops, that’s an event just as surely as when a sound starts.”
Even though we usually think of silences as a lack of input, our brains are structured to
recognize them, whenever they represent a sharp break from sounds. So the question is
what happens after that moment—when silence continues, and the auditory cortex settles
into a state of relative inactivity.
One of the researchers who’s examined this question is a Duke University regenerative
biologist, Imke Kirste. Like Bernardi, Kirste wasn’t trying to study silence at all. In 2013,
she was examining the effects of sounds in the brains of adult mice. Her experiment
exposed four groups of mice to various auditory stimuli: music, baby mouse calls, white
noise, and silence. She expected that baby mouse calls, as a form of communication, might
prompt the development of new brain cells. Like Bernardi, she thought of silence as a
control that wouldn’t produce an effect.
As it turned out, even though all the sounds had short-term neurological effects, not one
of them had a lasting impact. Yet to her great surprise, Kirste found that two hours of
silence per day prompted cell development in the hippocampus, the brain region related to
the formation of memory, involving the senses. This was deeply puzzling: The total absence
of input was having a more pronounced effect than any sort of input tested.
Here’s how Kirste made sense of the results. She knew that “environmental
enrichment,” like the introduction of toys or fellow mice, encouraged the development of
neurons because they challenged the brains of mice. Perhaps the total absence of sound
may have been so artificial, she reasoned—so alarming, even—that it prompted a higher
level of sensitivity or alertness in the mice. Neurogenesis could be an adaptive response to
uncanny quiet. … 
While it’s clear that external silence can have tangible benefits, scientists are discovering
that under the hoods of our skulls “there isn’t really such a thing as silence,” says Robert
Zatorre, an expert on the neurology of sound. “In the absence of sound, the brain often
tends to produce internal representations of sound.”
Imagine, for example, you’re listening to Simon and Garfunkel’s “The Sound of
Silence,” when the radio abruptly cuts out. Neurologists have found that if you know the
song well, your brain’s auditory cortex remains active, as if the music is still playing. “What
you’re ‘hearing’ is not being generated by the outside world,” says David Kraemer, who’s
conducted these types of experiments in his Dartmouth College laboratory. “You’re
retrieving a memory.” Sounds aren’t always responsible for sensations—sometimes our
subjective sensations are responsible for the illusion of sound.
This is a reminder of the brain’s imaginative power: On the blank sensory slate of
silence, the mind can conduct its own symphonies. But it’s also a reminder that even in the
absence of a sensory input like sound, the brain remains active and dynamic. … 

}}
&&
—Daniel A. Gross
excerpted and adapted from “This Is Your Brain on Silence”
http://nautil.us, July 7, 2016&&
[[15 The first paragraph introduces a central idea by
citing
(1) medical research
(2) scientific trends
(3) conflicting opinions
(4) relevant background
16 Lines 8 through 13 support the idea that noise
(1) can be controlled
(2) promotes clear thinking
(3) impacts human health
(4) can be soothing
17 The details in lines 14 through 22 indicate that
(1) sleep prevents the perception of sound
(2) noise can cause stress during sleep
(3) sleep relies on the presence of cortisol
(4) memory formation can accelerate during sleep
18 The conclusion drawn by the World Health
Organization (lines 24 through 28) highlights the
(1) need for more study
(2) need for further funding
(3) seriousness of the problem
(4) importance of global cooperation
19 Initial findings about the effects of silence
(lines 29 through 33) were
(1) ignored (3) revised
(2) unintended (4) repeated
20 As used in the text, “striking” (line 41) most nearly
means
(1) impressive (3) confusing
(2) disappointing (4) predictable
21 Bernardi’s discovery (lines 41 through 44)
contributes to a central idea by emphasizing the
(1) distinction between sound and noise
(2) calming effect of music
(3) loss of attentiveness after silence
(4) importance of silence between sounds
22 The statement in lines 45 and 46 conveys a sense
of
(1) uncertainty (3) bias
(2) irony (4) conflict 
23 The figurative language in lines 97 through 99
reinforces the idea that
(1) the presence of sound interferes with thinking
(2) silence can provide an opportunity for
creativity
(3) the volume of sound increases appreciation
of music
(4) silence can limit the recollection of memories
24 The author’s primary purpose in the text is to
(1) explain (3) promote
(2) criticize (4) entertain]]

##June 2021##
